Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
VENEZUELA
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Venezuela becoming
increasingly important in the family of
nations?
A.	Reasons for Selection:
1.	The countries of South America are always studied as an interesting comparison to those of North America.
2.	Oil is an important commodity and because it exists in such great quantities in Venezuela students should know more about the country from which it comes.
3.	There is almost always an item of current news emanating from Venezuela.
4.	In studying about famous liberators one becomes interested in the countries of their birth.
5.	Many United States citizens work in industries that depend on resources of Venezuela.
6.	Venezuela is an active country in the Pan American Union and in the United Nations and it is important that we know more about it.
7.	Travel by air has brought about an increase in the number of persons visiting this country and a desire for more information about it.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	APPROACH:
1.	The background of many countries of South America would be given as an introduction to the study of the continent. The focus might be placed on Venezuela because of current news items.
2.	In studying resources of the world, oil is one of the most important. Venezuela could be introduced as a country supplying much of it.
3.	A study of famous liberators would include knowledge of Simon Bolivar who was born in Venezuela.
4.	An explanation of the forms of governments and exciting moments in attaining some of them could lead to a discussion of the various revolutions in Venezuela.
5.	Research on economic trends in the United States would show the number of United States citizens interested in Venezuela.
6.	Reading and discussing books listed in the Bibliography in this issue will arouse an interest.
7.	Showing one of the films listed in this issue would be a good way to get the unit started.
B.	SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	How do the resources of Venezuela affect its place in the economic pattern of the world?
2.	What part does the geographical position of Venezuela play in its importance?
3.	How has the increased use of the airplane already affected Venezuela and what can be expected in the future?
4.	What has Venezuela contributed to the culture of the world?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER:
1.	Social Studies:—location; meaning of name given by the Spanish explorer Alonzo de Ojeclo; birthplace of Simon Bolivar; Caracas, capital; other cities, Valencia, Maracaibo, Ciudad Bolivar, Barcelon, Puerto Cabello, Barquisi-meto, Carupano, La Guaira; Lake Maracaibo; Gulf of Maracaibo, Paria; Orinoco River; Guiana highlands; Andes Mountains, Cordillera de Merida mountains; llanos; Angel Falls waterfalls, seventh largest in South America; Margarita islands, home of pearl fisheries; member of United Nations; money unit, bolivar; Ciudad University medical school has largest hospital in South America; exports of oil, coffee, cacao, meat, minerals, wild rubber, chicle and wild vanilla; government, federal republic, president elected every four years, senate and chamber of deputies; declared a republic in 1811 by Francisco Mirando, freed in 1819 by Simon Bolivar, seceded from Colombia in 1830; large school of geology in Maracaibo; some famous men, Blanco, Castro, Gomez, Contreras, Betancourt, Sucre, Jimenez.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words:—listed in this issue. Many words of Spanish extraction have become familiar to us such as llanos, llaneros, mestizos, etc.
b.	Literature: — Vincente Silia, author of national anthem; novelist, Romulo Gallegos; books listed in this issue.
c.	Oral Communication: — discussing news events concerning Venezuela; inquiring of people who have visited Venezuela; answering questions assigned to committees; reporting to the class information which has been gathered; reading parts of books to the class; reviewing changes of government and the dramatic episodes leading to the changes.
d.	Written Communication: — asking for more information; inviting others to share what the class has learned; writing reports on facts and books; planning an air trip to Venezuela picking out the places of interest to be seen; making up questions to present to the class; describing a visit to Lake Maracaibo or a tour of a coffee plantation.
3.	Science:—various kinds of climate and surface structure; wild life including herons, egrets, wild cats, crocodiles; flowers, including orchids, hibiscus, oleander mahogany and eucalyptus trees; Lake Maracaibo; pitch lake of Bermudez which produces asphalt; Eduardo Boccardo, mining inspector,
who found the “iron mountain’’ of El Pao; pearl fisheries; Casoquaira, natural canal.
4.	Health: — changes in living conditions which are being made continually; growth of modern conveniences; sports such as horse racing, bull fighting, golf, tennis, jai alai, cockfighting, swimming and fishing. Sometimes there are visits from North American baseball teams.
5.	Mathematics: — nine hours from New York by plane; graphs showing comparisons of production, exports and imports, numbers of people employed in oil fields, on coffee plantations; numbers of U.S. citizens working in industries connected with Venezuela; unit of money, bolivar, worth about 30 cents; miles between places in Venezuela.
6.	Music: — Municipal theater opera house, concerts and symphony too; Carreno Teresa, Venezuelan composer, pianist and singer; Venezuelan festival hymns; Juan Landaeta, composer.
7.	Art: — Museum of Fine Arts, Bolivar Museum; murals by Tover Tovary; Tito Salas, painter; laces, embroideries, mother of pearl.
B.	SKILLS:—in this unit it will be necessary
to develop the ability to separate fact from fiction and to show the necessity of proving statements made; graphs and how they can explain trends should also be stressed.
C.	ATTITUDES, INTERESTS AND UN-
DERSTANDINGS:
1.	To realize the many changes that have come about in various governments of Venezuela and the reasons behind them.
2.	To appreciate the magnitude of the natural resources of this country and the need to use them wisely.
3.	To develop an interest in the culture of the country and the many who contributed to it.
4.	To understand the dependence of nations upon each other and the necessity of foreign investments.
5.	To realize the changes that will come about as nations and people are brought closer together by air travel.
6. To understand that inhabitants of this country are also Americans.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A. THINGS TO DO:
1.	Make a collection of articles in everyday news concerning Venezuela.
2.	Make charts showing the amount of oil produced and the places to which it is distributed. Do the same for other important products.
3.	Collect and post pictures of Venezuela and Venezuelans.
4.	Read some of the material suggested in the bibliography.
5.	See some of the films suggested.
6.	Plan trips by air and by boat.
7.	Imagine you are present as certain exciting things are happening and write to the people back home.
8.	Write for more information.
9.	Construct a product map of Venezuela. Show important cities and other interesting spots.