Page 7
exported to the United States and also to Europe.
The Guiana Shield also is reported to contain rich deposits of bauxite. Manganese was exported from the area for the first time in 1956, and industrial diamonds have been found in ever-increasing quantities. Other commercial-scale mining in Venezuela includes gold, asbestos, gypsum, salt and sulphur. Among recent notable discoveries are large phosphate, uranium, titanium and thorium deposits. Other mineral wealth includes nickel, lead, mica, copper, magnesite, mercury, chrome ore, pyrites and antimony.
The two industrial giants, oil and iron ore, provide the basis of the nation’s progress toward greater industrialization. The industrial production index has been higher in Venezuela than in any other Latin American country since 1951. Employment in manufacturing and service industries increased from 175,000 before World War II to over 500,000. Industrial output trebled. Steel consumption now runs to more than 600,000 tons per year, — the highest per capita rate in Latin America. The most spectacular increases in the country have occurred in the rubber industry, leather, printing, ready-made clothes, building materials, and electric energy. Very significant increases were also recorded in the pharmaceutical, textile, chemical and food and beverage industries.
The food and beverage industry runs the gamut from the hand-made to the highly industrialized. It includes the production of such items as beer, soft drinks, oils and greases, milk products and sugar; alcohol, rum and liquors, animal foods, canned goods such as vegetables, fruit juices, fish, etc.; chocolate, candies, ice cream, coffee, salt, sauces and vinegars, cereals, corn products and dietetic products. The manufacture of cigars and cigarettes is also a traditional industry in Venezuela, but it has made great progress in the last few years. Whereas production of cigars has remained stationary, that of cigarettes increased a great deal. The production of the tobacco industry satisfied three-fourths of the country’s demand.
Textile Industry
The textile industry, one of the oldest in the country, is highly specialized today. It produces cotton, silk, woolen, and acetate cloths and products such as yarns, rope, twine, cotton, rayon and nylon. Many of the by-products of the industry, such as silk stockings, satisfy the entire domestic demand. Since cattle-raising has been one of Venezuela’s constant resources it is natural that out of it should have sprung the leather industry. There are many tanneries, most of them possessing the most modern equipment. Proof of the tremendous growth this industry has experienced is the fact that in the last seven years, its production has increased five times. The important shoe industry accounts for the manufacture of approximately two million pairs a year.
The great development of the printing industry reflects not only the material progress of the entire country but also the in-
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
VENEZUELA
tellectual activities that are taking place. Increases in quantity have also been accomplished by a better quality of products. Books, newspapers, magazines and films compose most of the items produced. The chemical industry is an important one in the nation’s over-all economic picture. Various paint factories have contributed to the considerable growth of the construction industry. Other items produced include soap and detergents, toilet articles, matches, plastic materials, fertilizers and industrial gases.
The rubber industry, aided by government protection and an improved highway network which increased the use of motor transportation, has recorded marked gains. In 1955 only one-fourth of the country’s demands were imported, the rest being produced by ultramodern Venezuelan plants. There are also other smaller concerns which produce by-products of rubber such as shoes, rugs and flooring. The construction materials industry has developed rapidly due to the great building boom that has been underway in the country in recent years. Products include cement blocks, cement, concrete pipes, premixed concrete, and asbestos.
Agriculture is Varied
Forty-five percent of the people of Venezuela, however, still live an agricultural or rural life. Because of the varied climate and topography, a wide range of crops are grown, — coffee, rice, cacao and sugar in the more humid areas; cotton, tobacco, sisal and sesame in the drier zones; and cattle raising on the plains. New crops are being planted, but the basic changes in Venezuelan agriculture are coming from the introduction of modern methods and the extension of irrigation. Tractors and other mechanized equipment, manufactured in
the United States, are coming into use. Irrigation projects will bring large areas in the dry zone under profitable cultivation.
Model farm communities, experimental plots and new farm-to-market roads are all part of the emerging blueprint for agriculture in modern Venezuela. And a system of education and technical guidance for farmers, modeled after the country agent system in the United States, is helping to improve the quantity and quality of crops and herds. Venezuela is now 85 percent self-sufficient in foodstuffs as against 50 percent in the immediate post-World War II years. Its total output has risen about 50 percent, but on a per capita basis, the increase has been less than half that amount.
A very important factor in agricultural development is the National Agrarian Bureau, attached to the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, and created to pioneer in modern farming ways. The prime objective of IAN, is a larger production of foodstuffs and other products of the soil by using the most efficient cultivation systems.
Between eighteen and twenty farming centers are now managed by IAN in various sections of Venezuela, all of them with about the same climate and all located on level land to take advantage of mechanization as far as possible. In these centers farmers are sold a piece of land of between 240 and 360 acres and a modern home, on easy terms payable over a 20-year period. They are supplied with seeds and farming implements on a rental basis and they are granted loans by the Agricultural and Livestock Bank to finance their initial operations. Some of them have paid off their loans ahead of time and all are doing well.
Maquetia Airport, serving Caracas is located on the ocean shore, and like many other big international airports is an attraction for those who like to sit and sip and watch the
airplanes arrive and depart.