BY HYING CLIPPER TO
VENEZUELA	Pages
Venezuela
by Enrique Portes
Venezuela, the Spanish word for little Venice, seems a strange name if you land at this country’s principal airport. Yet Alonso de Ojeda, the Spanish explorer, named it in 1499. Sailing over the waters of Lake Maracaibo, he saw the natives living-in houses built over the lake. The Indians and houses reminded Ojeda of Venice, Italy, hence the name of the country — Venezuela. Houses still stand on stilts in Lake Maracaibo, but other parts of Venezuela have undergone tremendous changes and have achieved amazing progress.
Venezuela is a big country but sparsely settled, with fewer people than Cuba. Nature has smiled on this country. There are mysterious, little-known spots like Angel Falls, the highest in the world. Deep in the jungle and mountain wilderness of southern Venezuela is an immense plateau with lofty cliffs for walls, like many American plateaus put together and on top of each other. Down the sides of these walls many waterfalls topple, the highest being a stream that plunges some 3,300 feet, twenty times as high as Niagara.
Angel Falls was discovered in 1937 by an American pilot, James Angel, who was flying his plane in the Caribbean area for anybody who would hire him. He found the waterfalls by accident. Later on Thomas Gilliard, of the American Museum of Natural History, led an expedition that explored the plateau and measured the height of Angel Falls.
Venezuelans take pride in their country’s wealth and natural beauty. They are particularly proud that it is the birthplace of Simón Bolívar, their national hero and a man loved and honored throughout Spanish America. Bolivar worked not only to liberate Venezuela from Spanish rule, but went on to help free Colombia, Ecuador, Perú and Bolivia. In Caracas, where so many old landmarks have disappeared, two in particular are pointed out to the visitor — the little house where Bolivar was born and the tall building that holds his tomb.
Venezuela has been called “the Cinderella of South America.” The discovery of oil there on the eve of World War I transformed Venezuela from one of South America’s poorest countries into its richest. Venezuela ranks sixth among South American republics in size and in population (6,000,-000 people) . It has a long, rather wild border with Colombia, an even wilder one with Brazil, and an uninhabited frontier with British Guiana; the country is twice as large as Spain, which has about seven times as many people.
Geographically, Venezuela is not homogeneous. The Andes cover only a tenth of the nation and house almost three-fourths of the people. There are two mountain systems, the Cordillera de Mérida running from the Colombian border to Barquisi-meto and the Caribbean Hills rising near that town and more or less paralleling the sea all across the country to the Paria Pen-
insula opposite Trinidad. Caracas lies in these Caribbean Hills. In them and in the Andean mountains are found most of the culture and political activity of Venezuela.
The second region is the Maracaibo Lowlands around Lake Maracaibo. At the northern end of the oil port of Maracaibo, the southern shore is densely forested and swampy; the eastern shore is lost to sight under thousands of oil derricks extending far out into the water, the western gradually rising to the Sierra de Perija, which forms the boundary between Venezuela and Colombia.
The Llamos, comprising the third geographical division, are vast grassy plains, flooded in the wet months and bone dry the rest of the year. They are about three hundred miles wide, and run east-west from the Atlantic to the Colombian Andes.
More than half of Venezuela’s area lies south of the Orinoco River in the Guiana Highlands, the fourth geographical division, but less than five per cent of its people live there. Offshore in the Caribbean are seventy-one small islands and one large one, Isla Margarita. Margarita is almost as large as Europe’s Luxembourg and the two have at least one major “hobby” in common.
The Llanos of Venezuela
The Llanos and the mountains cover about eighty-five per cent of Venezuela’s area. The llanos are unending flat grasslands, similar in some respects to the pampas of Argentina, but bone dry in summer and mostly inundated in winter, which is
the rainy season. In this region, extending north of the Orinoco River from the Colombian border to the Atlantic, cattle is grazed, oil pumped, and relatively little agriculture is carried on by the llanero. The llanero is the Venezuelan of the plains. During the war for independence he fought for Spain until Bolivar won him over; thereafter he played a major role in defeating the Spanish armies. One of his leaders, the tough José Antonio Páez (“the Lion of Apure”), served under Bolivar and after independence was won was the dominant figure for three decades.
The Venezuelan cowboy has become a part of the Venezuelan literary world. The famous novelist, Rómulo Gallegos, in his celebrated book Doña Bárbara, describes the llanero to perfection. “Before life, indomitable and long-suffering, indolent and indefatigable; in a fight, impulsive and astute; with his superiors, undisciplined and loyal; with a friend, jealous and self-denying; with a woman, voluptuous and rough; with himself, sensual and temperate. In his talk, malicious and ingenous, incredulous and superstitious; in every case, gay and melancholy, matter-of-fact and whimsical. Humble on foot and superb on horseback. All this at once and without confusion, as are the defects and the virtues of new souls.”
The llanos is the place for the hunter, the specialist, or the explorer. There are two interesting towns along the Orinoco River: San Fernando de Apure y Ciudad Bolívar. It was in the latter that Simón Bolívar asked a Congress of twenty-nine delegates in 1818 to proclaim the union of Venezuela with New Granada (now Colombia) as a free republic, a proclamation marred only by the fact that the Spaniards firmly controlled both countries at that time.


Photo: Hamilton Wright
Low income housing project in Caracas costing $24,000,000.