Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
A secondary but also very important goal of IAN is the improvement of the farmer’s standard of living. Bearing this in mind, they have started by building comfortable homes with sanitary facilities, and providing recreational and educational opportunities for the farmer and his family.
Coffee and Cacao
Venezuela’s agricultural products fall into two categories, those produced primarily for exports, and those grown chiefly for domestic consumption. Coffee is Venezuela’s most important agricultural export commodity followed by cacao. Crops grown chiefly for domestic consumption are sugar, cotton, sesame, tobacco, corn, rice, yams, beans and other vegetables, and a wide variety of fruits.
Both coffee and cacao have been basic crops in the country’s agricultural economy since the Eighteenth Century. Such coffee types as Tachira, Merida and Trujillo, named for the principal producing states, have long been famous mild types in world coffee markets. Coffee plantations cover some 838,000 acres of Venezuelan soil, distributed among 70,000 or more plantations in 16 of the 20 states. When coffee prices dropped in 1930, production became unprofitable and declined, but the improved world market for coffee in recent years has greatly stimulated production.
To improve both the quantity and quality of coffee, the Ministry of Agriculture assists growers by means of Coffee Extension Drives and a Coffee Culture Training School. The Agricultural and Livestock Bank, a government agency, also helps coffee growers by advancing funds to harvest crops. The Venezuelan Association of Coffee Growers looks after the interests of the entire industry.
Cacao production has also fluctuated greatly according to world market prices.
Photo: Hamilton Wright
The armadillo wears a suit of armor, consisting of bony plates, so joined to the body that he can curl up into a ball if he wants to, for protection. Baby armadillos are born in fours, as identical quadruplets.
Technical and financial assistance is provided to growers by the Ministry of Agriculture and other government agencies and exporters receive assistance by means of a preferential exchange rate. Cacao is grown throughout the Caribbean coastal area as well as in the interior.
Versatile Sesame
There has been much impetus during recent years in sesame production — the main crop of oil seeds. The Government has established a Sesame Foundation to improve this valuable seed and further its use. Domestic production is steadily increasing although every so often weather conditions produce a poor crop and the domestic edible oils industry has to import some supplies.
Actually Venezuela was the first country in the world to put the cultivation of sesame on a technical and mechanized basis. There are many outlets for the crop, some of which have scarcely been exploited anywhere. The combined oil and protein content of the seed is much greater than that of any other seed, edible or not. Meal left after the oil has been extracted is a valuable by-product in the form of a protein supplement for farm animals.
A very nourishing and tasty popular refreshment is prepared from roasted, ground sesame seeds mixed with milk and sweetened with molasses. Roasted whole sesame seeds are often used on buns and rolls in the same manner as poppyseeds. Mixed with molasses caramel the seeds constitute a delicious rather exotic Venezuelan candy called conserva de ajonjoli. Furthermore, industry has found in sesame oil unique properties which make it ideal as a base for various insecticides. It is also employed as a carrier of penicillin and in making cosmetics, perfumes and toilet soaps.
The best agricultural land in Venezuela is in the Valencia Lake Basin and the Caracas Valley. The llanos comprising almost one-third of the country’s total land area, have been used almost exclusively for cattle grazing since the colonial period. Although cattle are raised throughout the country, the livestock industry is concentrated in the states of Apure and Guarico; with many cattle ranges averaging between two and three thousand acres each. Despite their great extent, the llanos do not provide sufficient year round pasturage. During the rainy season the Orinoco and its tributaries overflow and cover thousands of square miles of land with water. To escape the floodwaters, the cattle must seek higher ground. After some five months of rain, the blistering sun turns the pastures into dry, burned grass. The country is self-sufficient in the production of beef and has for many years exported limited quantities. The cattle industry has benefited from the program launched in 1949 by the Venezuelan Development Corporation for the application of scientific cattle raising in the Apure zone.
Fishing Industry
The fishing industry represents a very important economic branch in Venezuela’s
economy and during recent years has experienced considerable expansion and development. The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock has taken great interest in lending its technical and financial help to all fishing enterprises giving special attention to the motorization of small fishing-craft, in order to enable them to cover a more extensive sea area than would be possible by sail. Fish production amounts to 113,900,000 pounds annually which is valued at about $9,600,000.
The country’s richest fishing zone, where 75 percent of all commercial fishing is carried on, extends from the British Guiana border to Cape Unare in Anzoategui State, including the mouth of the Orinoco River and the waters surrounding Magarita Island. The region is teaming with such varieties of fish as Red Snapper, Spanish Mackeral, Mullet and Bluefish, as well as many others.
The Gulf of Cariaco is considered one of the most productive reserves of sardines in the world. The city of Cumana at the entrance of the Cariaco Gulf is the most important fishing center in the country. Nine of the nation’s ten large canneries are located there. Fishing conditions are also excellent in the Gulf of Venezuela, west of Paraguana Peninsula. This area, together with Lake Maracaibo, is also rich in shrimp. The rivers offer various kinds of delicious fish, such as Zapoara from the Orinoco and trout from the streams and brooks in the Andes Mountains, as well as the delicious Manatee, an aquatic mammal found in the Orinoco.
Improved Transportation
Improved transportation facilities have played an important part in the modernization of agriculture. New highways have made possible the marketing of growing and diversified farm production. Until recently, Venezuela’s rugged topography loomed as the principal obstacle to the exchange of food as the most advanced areas of the country were separated from each other by mountain barriers. In the past these market islands in individual valleys were best accessible from the coast by means of railroads but the railroads were often obsolete and failed to keep pace with the expanding volume of freight. Under the circumstances, highways have become the best and most economical means of joining different parts of the country and opening up new ones. There is however, an ambitious ten-year railway development program underway which will cost $2.5 billion dollars.
The country’s main highway trunkline is the Venezuelan section of the Pan American Highway which stretches 570 miles from the Colombian border to Caracas, mostly along the western slope of the Andes. A second trunkline, also from Caracas to the Colombian border, follows the eastern Andean slope and taps the resources of the llanos country. A third main route, the Carretera Oriental, strikes