Page T-2
E»/Vl%r jé\. IVE IE 6Ft ÍCA.JM
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
cru
;í WORLD
5C\
“	VYv?
AIRWAYS TEACHER
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways
George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1958, Pan American World Airways,Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(Continued from page T-l) would be required to press the dresses after arrival.
Perishability is another important factor. Flowers, fruit and vegetables obviously are perishable and can profit by the rapid delivery of air freight on that basis. But bear in mind that there are other types of perishability. News has to be fresh, and that is why newspapers take to the air. Fashions are perishable, and in a completely unpredictable way — sometimes their value vanishes in days or weeks, and sometimes it lasts much longer. If one is interested in selling a new fashion, he can only assume it is necessary to move it to potential buyers as quickly as possible. And he has to do this in any case, in order to meet competition from others in his business.
(Air line people think they have the most perishable commodity of all, in that the seat space in the passenger compartment or the bin in the cargo compartment, if it is not occupied when the airplane leaves the ground, is gone forever as something to be sold. Nothing can be salvaged from an unsold seat, or unsold cargo space.)
Another advantage which air cargo can provide for a business man is reduction in size, and flexibility, of his inventory. If he knows that he can get any particular item needed from the other side of the continent, or the other side of the ocean, in twenty-four hours, he need keep in stock only those items for which there is frequent and continuing demand. He can have 20 items in stock instead of 200, or 200 instead of 2,000 — depending upon the nature of his business. In this way he saves on shelf space or ware house space. Also he saves on funds tied up in inventory. And in countless business enterprises this type of operation has been found to be equally as good for customers, or even better, than a policy of attempting to keep a great variety of items in stock.
The various factors are inter-mingled, of course. It may be smart to hold down inventory, because the items involved are perishable. The low inventory policy may be possible only because the items involved are such that the minimum packaging for air shipment is feasible. Things tend to get complicated, and that is why the air transportation industry for a number of years has been training people as cargo specialists.
The superiority of surface means for the heaviest and bulkiest types of freight shipments, when speed is not needed, accounts for the fact that air freight is less than one per cent of the total of freight moved. On
ELEPHANTS FLY—Zoos and animal dealers are steady customers for air cargo. Full grown elephants are too large for air shipment, but youngsters like fhis one travel by air
and enjoy it.
the other hand, the advantages of air shipment suggested in the preceding paragraphs for a long and growing list of commodities make air freight the fastest growing phase of air transportation and one increasingly important to industry and trade, both domestic and international.
Clipper Cargo Case Histories
Generalities are fine in their place, but specifics are more revealing, so let’s examine some actual experiences with Clipper Cargo.
Those mentioned here will be suggestive only — selected as examples from hundreds on record in the files of Pan American’s Cargo Sales Manager.
Animals. Shipments for zoos, animals for research laboratories, race horses going to race meetings, and pets going to new homes are included among animals travelling by Clipper Cargo. There is so much of this sort of travel that the New York International Airport at Idlewild now has an animal departure and arrival center maintained by the S.P.C.A.
In New Zealand there is a little bird that doesn’t fly, the kiwi (Air line people whose duties are on the ground sometimes call themselves kiwis.) A few years ago the New Zealand authorities decided to send a pair of kiwis to Queen Elizabeth, the first ever released by the government to leave the country. It was never questioned that the only way for them to travel was by air. But before they left on their trip, supplies of worms of the type kiwis like best were “positioned” in Nandi, Honolulu, San Francisco, New York and Gander. The kiwis had a pleasant trip, presumably. At least they arrived in London in good health, and Her Majesty arranged for them to have a new home at the London Zoological Society.
Apparel. Belgian Shoes, Inc. has models ranging from play shoes at $24.75 to $120 for alligator pumps or jewel-trimmed evening slippers. They are all made in the 300-year-old Berates Belgium Factory of De Busschere in Belgium, by craftsmen whose families have worked at this same trade, for the same firm, for many generations.
Belgian Shoes maintains a stock of about 9,0j00 pairs of shoes in New York, takes special orders with promises of delivery in four weeks, shipment by air. All of the stock flies to New York, including that for the standing inventory.
Henri Bendl, who operates a specialty shop in New York and the factory in Belgium, says: “While shoes are not perishable, fashion is, so it’s gratifying to know that I can fill the orders of my customers who want their new Belgian shoes today sure.”
Business Machines. When I.B.M. set up a center in Paris to serve European scientists and researchers, it flew a 704 electronic data processing machine across the Atlantic. Total weight was 30,425 pounds. The shipment left the I.B.M. plant at Poughkeepsie on a Friday afternoon by truck, arrived at New York’s International Airport that evening, was flown across the ocean in several shipments during the weekend, and was received complete, in Paris, by Monday.
Department Stores. Those in the know estimate that 25 to 35 per cent of the merchandise coming from France to depart-(Continued on page T-3)