Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Photo: Hamilton Wright
Workman planting dynamite charges at Cerro Bolivar iron mine. This mine contains
400,000,000 tons of iron ore.
Something New in Vegetables
There are many kinds of vegetables grown in Venezuela which are almost unknown in temperate regions. The Albahaca (Basil) , for instance, is an aromatic plant of the mint family, cultivated widely in Venezuela for seasoning, the leaves being used with tomatoes and onions in cooking. It is abut two feet tall, with tiny flowers borne in branching spikes. The foliage is of a beautiful brilliant green color, which has been cited in many poems and songs.
Another vegetable is the tasty Ap\io (Ar-racacha), an umbeliferous plant with tuberous roots which are used for food. The soft, thin skin is easily scraped off, and the tubers are boiled to be mashed, after which they are mixed with beef broth to make a rich, savory soup. Apio can also be eaten baked or fried, like potatoes. Crullers made of mashed, fried apdo, dipped in molasses, are a luscious Venezuelan dessert fit for a king's table.
The many beans and peas grown in Venezuela, include a variety little-known in the United States, are the Garbanzos (Chick-peas) , a small, bushy annual of the pea family, growing to a height of 2 feet. Of ancient cultivation in the Old World, it is extensively grown in Latin American countries. The pealike seeds, strangely swollen on one side, resemble a ram’s head. They are served as a vegetable in soups and ■stews, are roasted like peanuts, and in some countries are used as a substitute for coffee. Chick-peas are very palatable and are among the most nutritious of the leguminous seeds.
Another exotic, aromatic plant extensively used in the Venezuelan cuisine is the Hinojo (Fennel) , a member of the parsley family, grown for its highly flavored leaves and seeds. It is also used for medicinal purpose as a beverage. The flavor of fennel is
somewhat like licorice. The Ocumo (Taro) is an herb, also called dasheen or elephant’s ear, from the huge, bright green leaves which are often three feet long and nearly as wide. This herb is of the arum family, widely grown in Venezuela (and all throughout the tropics) for the tubers, which are used as food. Taro tubers are eaten like potatoes, and the young shoots and leaves are sometimes used as a vegetable.
The Yuca (Cassava), of the spurge family, native to tropical America, is a perennial shrublike plant growing to nine feet in height, of great economic importance in Venezuela as a staple food. It is also called manioc, mandioc, or bitter cassava. With large, deeply lobed leaves, small flowers in clusters, and globular seed capsules, it somewhat resembles the castor-oil plant. The fleshy, starch-bearing roots, which may be three feet long and nine inches in diameter, contain so much prussic acid that when raw they are exceedingly poisonous; they are rendered harmless by cooking, or by having the juice pressed out.
Cassava as a food is as important to the tropics as potatoes are to temperate regions. It is eaten boiled, baked, fried or roasted. A native Indian biscuit-like bread called Casabe is made from the pressed-out root pulp roasted over open fire; It is especially tasty when soaked with molasses and sprinkled with grated white cheese.
Caracas — a booming City
The first thing you notice when you arrive in Venezuela by airplane is the new highway connecting the airport with Caracas. Once the trip took an hour and a half over a winding road that climbed up and up to magnificent views. Now you are whisked through a mountain tunnel to the capital in twenty minutes. The new high-
way that makes this possible cost six million dollars a mile.
Caracas is going through an astonishing change. Whole blocks of buildings have been moved as if they were made of cardboard to make way for an eight-lane highway that slices through the city. Sleek office buildings and huge apartment houses have replaced older and smaller buildings. Exclusive shops sell gowns from New York, Rome and Paris. Jewels from the world’s treasure houses and exquisite objects made from Venezuela’s own gold are on display. Every year more theaters, hotels, schools, and homes go up.
Most spectacular of all new hotels in Venezuela is the Humboldt, atop Avila mountain, 7,000 feet above sea level, overlooking the city of Caracas to the south and the seashore to the north. It has five suites in each of its 14 floors. The hotel is accessible from Caracas only on the cable railway going up from the Maripérez station, at the foot of the mountain, to the Avila station, at the top. From the latter point, a second cable railway takes passengers to the hotel lobby. Another section of the cable railway will run from the seashore resort of Macuto to the hotel.
Despite an abundance of flowering plazas, fine colonial homes, and a Capitol memorable for its striking lines and informal beauty, Caracas is difficult of description. It is a city in transformation. In the heart of Caracas, in fact everywhere, the cement shafts rise skyward. Anything can happen in this energetic city. Neon signs, swing orchestras, snappy clothes, intense political activity, modernistic mansions, stream-lined schools, radio and television — that seems to be the order of the day.
The streets of old Caracas, narrow and straight, follow a precise plan. Even the little rivers that wander through town have been paved over as though they did not exist. The hundred-foot wide Avenida Bolívar rammed through building and house to cross town east and west. The former slum quarters known as El Silencio, at the foot of a hill, Paseo Independencia, and other parts of the city, have been ripped out boot and boodle and replaced by the largest single housing project in South America, whose ultramodern apartments cover twenty-five acres.
One of the housing projects at Caracas, built at a cost of $90,000,000 from oil revenues, has recently been completed. More than 8,000 slum shacks were razed to make way for the project, in which there are fifty-nine apartment buildings and fifteen shopping centers, schools, clinics, theaters and playgrounds. Rents range from $27 to $54 a month and only families that lived in the slum shacks are eligible. The buildings are finished in red, blue, black and yellow.
Like Washington, D. C., Caracas is situated in a federal district. It’s population is about a million. The blocks containing the Capitolio and Plaza Bolivar touch -corners and are the heart of the city. Avenidas Sur and Oeste meet at the northeast corner of the plaza and change names: South becomes North; West, East. These avenues quarter the city and are the nucleus of a formal street-naming system that no