Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
PEOPLE AND PETROLEUM-27 min. sound, black and white. Modern Talking Pictures Service, 3 East 54th St., New York 27, N. Y.
This him tells the story of modern Venezuela and the part which an American business firm, Creole Petroleum Corporation, operates as a guest in this foreign country. In the film we travel on the “Autotista”, the famous highway through the mountains from the sea to the capital city of Caracas. In addition to the modern hospitals, modern schools, and the oil industry installations, we are shown the old traditional beauty of the plazas and the old Spanish streets. On the plains, the llaneros still celebrate fiestas in the manner of their forbearers.
ASSIGNMENT VENEZUELA - 24 min. sound, color. Modern Talking Pictures, 3 East 54th St., New York 22, New York. The him tells the story of a young petroleum engineer from the United States and how he learns to work and live as a guest in Venezuela. It depicts the benefits of a remarkable working arrangement between American industry and a foreign government. There are magnificent views of the vast off-shore oil fields, the modern city of Caracas, the old world traditions as well as a view of the developments that are bringing a new way of life to the people. VENEZUELA—10 min. sound, black and white, and color. Encyclopedia Britan-nica Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
Produced by Dudley Pictures, we see in this him the major historical industrial, geographic and scenic highlights of Venezuela, and visit Maracaibo, Caracas, and the University.
COLUMBIA AND VENEZUELA-11 min. sound, black and white. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
This film traces discovery, exploration and settlement of this region, depicts the geographical characteristics, describes the natural resources, the economy and the people who live here and their work — farming, mining, shipping and manufacturing. Animated map drawings show the extent of Columbia and Venezuela world trade in the import and export of products. IRON ORE FROM CERRO, BOLIVAR-31 min. sound, black and white. U. S. Steel Co., 525 William Penn Place, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Shows the discovery, development and operation of a U. S. Steel Company iron ore mine in Venezuela.
VENEZUELA MOVES AHEAD - 36 min. sound, color. United World Government Flms, United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York.
Produced by Julien Bryan for the Office of Inter-American Affairs. This film presents a historical, geographical and eco-
nomic analysis of Venezuela — its liberation from Spain, its natural divisions into four sections, the coastal plain, the Andes, the Llanos and the Guiana Highlands. Details of the country’s oil industry are also shown.
Film Strips
THE NEW VENEZUELA —50 frames with captions, color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, 1150 Wilmette St., Wilmette, 111. Produced in cooperation with Dr. Clarence W. Sorenson, Illinois State Normal University.
Important aspects of the life, culture, natural environment and economics are presented. Color photographs and maps are used. The filmstrip ends with a series of questions for review and discussion. COLOMBIA AND VENEZUELA - 50 frames, with captions, black and white. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette St., Wilmette, 111.
Based on the film bearing the same title, this filmstrip presents the physical geography, natural resources, industry, agriculture and customs of the country.
COUNTRIES OF THE NORTHWEST OF SOUTH AMERICA - VENEZUELA, COLOMBIA, ECUADOR - 2 parts, 45 frames each, with captions, color. McGraw-Hill Text-film Department, 130 West 42nd St., New York 36, N. Y. Produced by Popular Science Audio-Visual Dept., this filmstrip portrays the beautiful valleys, the topography, the modern cities and the primitive villages of these three countries.
LANDS AND PEOPLES OF NORTHERN SOUTH AMERICA - COLOMBIA, VENEZUELA AND THE GUIANIS-49 frames with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111.
Photographs and maps depict life in the mountains and interior regions. The difficulties of transportation and the changes resulting from the development of mineral resources are shown.
VENEZUELA — 62 frames, silent with title frames, black and white. Stillfilms, Inc., 35 South Raymond Aves., Pasadena, Calif. One of the South America series, this stillfilm includes 30 pictures and 32 titles. There are shown pictures of La Guira and Caracas, the public market, the plaza, the custom house, and the wharf.
HOW THE VENEZUELANS LIVE - 40 frames, silent, black and white. Available free from Educational Section, Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York City.
This filmstrip is part 1 of the series, ‘Venezuela — A Good Neighbor”. It depicts the life of the people in our nearest South American Neighbor. It begins with a map showing the location of Venezuela, its size, population, climate, terrain and other physical features. There are views of the early Spanish colonial culture and also of the
modern cultural life of to-day. It shows how the lives of the people have been enriched through industrial developments, — modern homes, highways, parks, schools, hospitals and a great university.
HOW THE VENEZUELANS WORK - 40 frames, silent, black and white. Available free from Educational Section, Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York City.
This filmstrip is part 2 of the series, “Venezuela —A Good Neighbor”. It shows how the people of Venezuela and technicians from the United States have worked together to discover and develop Venezuela’s petroleum resources. It depicts the spectacular oil fields of Lake Maracaibo and describes in detail how the workers recover the oil and how it is transported to world markets.
SLIDES —2x2, Kodachromes, 35 mm color, set of 50, available without charge on loan from Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York. The teacher will find this set of 2x2 color slides, excellent background and resource material for a unit of work on Venezuela and also for a research project on the production of Venezuela’s oil industry. There are scenes of its principal cities, important buildings, monuments, streets, avenues and other points of interest — the life of the people in the cities and in the rural villages — the Central University of Caracas, its campus, the School of Architecture, the 13 story library and other modern structures, the oil production at Lake Maracaibo, the wells, the drilling, the pipe lines, the tankers, etc.
EXHIBITS — available for loan for two-week period without charge from Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York 20, N. Y.
(It is suggested that the teachers write to Creole Petroleum Corporation, 1230 Avenue of the Americas, New York 20, N. Y. for folder on information, services, and publications on Venezuela.)
LIFE IN VENEZUELA - a series of photo enlargements, includes pictures on oil industry, activities, highway, architecture and agricultural developments, national customs and domestic life of a typical family.
Records
Folk Dances of Venezuela (FW 8844) Folkways Records, 117 W. 46th St., NYC, 33-1/3 rpm longplay record.
For the first time, twelve Venezuelan Folk Dances recorded in their original environment are made available by Folkways Records through the cooperation of the Ministry of Education of the Government of Venezuela. The record is a fascinating variety of the most characteristic dances of Indian, Spanish and Mestizo origin. The dances — round, couple, circle, etc. are beautiful, rich and suggestive. Complete dance instructions, with the steps outlined for easy learning and participation even by Northern novices, accompany the record. Ronnie and Stu Lipner, specialists and experts, chart the steps, and provide the instructions and background notes. The Venezuelan musicians play typical instruments such as flutes, cuatros, maracas, Indian pipes.