Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO VENEZUELA
by George Gardner
Flying to Venezuela is no more complicated, insofar as the actual travel is concerned, than a cross-country trip in the United States.
We can fly direct from New York in a non-stop flight to the Venezuelan capitol, or we may depart from Miami, New Orleans, Houston or Los Angeles, all of which are gateway cities for travel by Clipper to Latin America.
The flight from New York takes about seven hours, 1958 schedule, and will be reduced to 4i/t> or less with the introduction of the jet Clippers. Travel from the other gateway cities is proportionately speedy.
In preparation for our trip to Venezuela we will first consult a Pan American ticket office or travel agent about schedules and fares, and book passage for the time we want to travel. We will do this about a month in advance, or more, so that we will have plenty of time to do the other things that will be required.
For one thing, a passport and visa or a tourist card is needed. (In general, the tourist card is sufficient for citizens of nations in the western hemisphere).
A passport is obtained from our own government’s State Department, by applying either to the passport office in Washington or one of its branches in other cities. It is evidence of citizenship and of the fact that our government has no objection to our travelling abroad, and that we are entitled to recognition as American citizens by representatives of the United States in other countries.
The visa is a notice made on passport by diplomatic or consular representative in the United States. When this visa is granted to us, it is evidenced by a rubber stamp on passport which is evidence that we have given notice of our intention to visit Vene-
zuela, and have so advised Venezuela’s representative in the United States.
A tourist card is a simpler document serving much the same purpose. It is a card issued by a representative of Venezuela in the United States and like the visa on a passport, it is evidence that we have given notice to the Venezuelan representative that we intend to make the journey.
In addition to the passport and visa, or tourist card, we need a certificate of smallpox vaccination, a letter of reference and four photographs.
There are no restrictions about currency carried into Venezuela. There is a restriction, however, as to use of cameras. You will not be permitted to take pictures while flying over Venezuelan territory, nor may you take pictures at the Venezuelan airport, except with prior permission.
Another preparation that we must make for this trip is concerned with wardrobe. Caracas is near the equator; summer clothes are worn the year round, but a topcoat is required and sometimes fur jackets are worn in the evening.
In other parts of Venezuela, along the coast and on the Llanos (plains) in the Orinoco river region it is truly tropical, and tropical clothing such as shorts and sport shirts and sun helmets will be wanted.
A third area of preparation, and one of the most important, is orientation. By orientation is meant learning as much as possible about Venezuela in advance, and cidtivating an attitude of mind which will make us more likely to understand what we see and hear, get along readily with the Venezuelans, and thus enjoy our visit to the utmost. This can be done by reading, looking at motion pictures, talking to Venezuelans in the United States or to friends
who have visited Venezuela, and most all of these things will be done as we undertake a unit of study such as is suggested in the pages following.
With all this accomplished, we are ready to start our trip. If our departure point is New York, we will leave from International Airport, also called Idlewild — one of the largest and busiest airports in the world with aircraft departing for and arriving from all parts of the world.
We’ll probably go first to the Eastside Airlines Terminal in New York City and take the airport limousine there for Idle-wild, and we will check in with at least an hour to spare so that there will be time for the agent to examine our tickets and documents and to check our baggage.
When that is accomplished we probably will have a few minutes to see people going and coming in their world travels, visit the airport shops, perhaps go to the bank and change a few dollars into Venezuelan bolivars, meanwhile listening for the announcement of our flight.
And here it is:
“Attention please, Pan American flight
201 now ready for boarding at gate 8,
all aboard please”.
We’re on our way to Venezuela.
This is a long flight — more than 2100 miles (see map), nearly as long a journey as traveling across the Atlantic to Europe, or over the Pacific to Hawaii.
(If we continue beyond Caracas, over the rain forests of Brazil, on the route “across the hump” to Rio de Janeiro, that wil.l be the longest over land flight in the world.)
Actually, our flight may be more in miles than the air line distance between New York and Caracas, because the Captain will take the route which will afford the most help from winds, and if there is turbulent air anywhere along the route, and extending to a high altitude, he will detour around it.
The weather reports that he studied prior to departure enabled him to plot the route for best aid from wind conditions and to avoid choppy air. Also, he has radar equipment which will help him to spot storm centers ahead and avoid areas where there will be bumpy air.
In the passenger compartment we will be completely unaware of such detours — the ocean below has a uniform appearance, and little of interest unless we spot an ocean liner. Sometimes the clouds present an interesting appearance, and we may see some of the Caribbean Islands as we pass over the West Indies.
Some time during the flight the Captain will pass through the cabin, and will be glad to talk to us about the route for our flight, and how he has planned it. And he will give a report of progress from time to time over the loud speaker.
Eventually his voice tells us that we will be landing at Caracas in a few minutes, and request that we fasten seat belts. Looking out the window we see a huge modern airport.
We land, the airplane rolls to a stop, taxis to the ramp, and we disembark to start our visit to Venezuela, and to learn of its attractions ranging from the beauty of tropical orchids to the riches of oil and iron ore.