Page T-4
PAIV AMERICAIV
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
TEENAGERS FROM ABROAD IN U. S. FOR N. Y. HERALD TRIBUNE FORUM
“Oh yes!" said Angeliki from Greece, “I've changed most of my opinions since coming to this country — that's the important thing the Forum does."
Teen-age students from 34 countries exchanged friendly but earnest verbal blows on topics ranging from the survival of opposite opinions to education in America March 22 at the 12th annual New York Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools held in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City. Among the audience of 2,000 students, teachers and parents were members of nearly 150 families who acted as hosts to the visiting delegates during three months which they spent in the United States living with American families, going to schools and seeing the sights.
For the first time in the history of the Forum, the group traveled to the Midwest, staying a week in St. Louis, Missouri. They also visited Williamsburg, Virginia, and Washington, D. C.
Sixteen boys and 18 girls discussed “Education for What?”, “The Conquest of Prejudice,” and “The Survival of Opposites,” at the two-hour Forum which climaxed the delegates’ stay here. Also featured on the program, which was televised in part over station WOR, New York, were students presenting native music and dances. Traditional national costumes worn by several of the delegates added color to the dias where Mrs. Theodore Waller, Forum Director, sat as moderator.
Craig H. Scott of W. C. Mepham High School, Bellmore, New York, and Miss Kate M. Clark, Hastings High School, Hastings-on-the-Hudson, New York, spoke on “An Addition to the Family.” Both were host students.
The 1958 delegates included Miss Vivian Salomon, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Miss Suzana Rigoleth, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Mahipala Udabage, Pannipitiya, Ceylon; Mogens Potdsen, Copenhagen S, Denmark; Ahmed Ahmed Attia, Alexandria, Egypt; Yilma Taddesse, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Miss Ritva Fabrin, Tampere, Finland; Miss Francoise Monier, Seine, France; Gerd Greif, Goslar/Harz, Germany; Ben Kofi, Nkawkaw, Ghana; Miss Angeliki Laiou, Athens, Greece; Björn Fridfinnsson, Reykjak, Iceland; K. R. Krishnan, Nagpur, India; Miss Sjarmaini Sjarif, Bukittinggi, Indonesia; Miss Minoo Taavon, Teheran, Iran; Miss Ruth Loeb, Kfar-Shmaryahu, Israel; Miss Marcella Bassani, Torino, Italy; Miss Yu-kiko Yoshimura, Tokyo, Japan; Michael Karam, Jernsaelm, Jordan; Miss Sangmie Choi, Seoul, Korea; Ibrahim Houry, Beirut, Lebanon; Miss Lee Hup Suan, Ipoh, Malaya; Omar Boury, Casablanca, Morocco; Miss Foluke Ademoye, Ibadan, Nigeria; Miss Arnlaug Leira, Trondheim, Norway; Miss Naila Ahmed, Karachi, Pakistan; Miss Patrocinio Pagaduan, Quezon City, Philippines; Beshir Abdel Gadir, Blue Nile Province, Sudan; Saroj Chavanaviraj; Bangkok, Thailand; Onder Guler, Eskisehir, Turkey; Miss Rina Thom, Transvaal, Union of South Africa; John Torode, Essex England; Miss Nguyen Thieu Nga, Saigon, Viet Nam, and Trivo Indjica, Belgrade, Yugoslavia. Pan American World Airways provided
Ibrahim Houry, 17, of Beirut, Lebanon, and Miss Naila Ahmed, 17, of Karachi, Pakistan, sample two American teen-age customs for the first time. They taste their first American ice cream soda, and share it the way American teen-agers do.
round-trip transportation for 20 of the delegates.
At the Forum, many of the young visitors put into words opinions formed or modified only after their three months of American life. Like Miss Laiou of Greece, the others felt their experience in America had changed many of their ideas, broadened their viewpoints and modified their prejudices. With spirit and vitality they expressed their thoughts on subjects taught in American schools, teen-age study habits, attitudes of students toward teachers, the position educators have in America. Sometimes their comments were highly critical, sometimes they were favorable, always they were honest and forthright. Occasionally an opinion was attributed to a discussion or an experience which a student had during his visit to St. Louis.
In February the 34 delegates spent the first week of a two-week trip in the Midwest as guests of the St. Louis Post Dispatch. Cooperating in the project were schools, teachers, civic and religious leaders as well as hundreds of citizens who acted as hosts and guides. The delegates stayed at Thompson House in Webster Groves, and were taken by private cars or buses to schools where an American student acted as host to each visitor. An hour-long discussion program was presented in University City Senior High School auditorium by the visiting delegates. Educational television station KETC in St. Louis televised an afternoon discussion which featured questions submitted by American students, a talent program, and one in the 13-week WOR panel discussion series on “The World We Want.”
Completing the itinerary were tours of
fur-processing and can manufacturing plants, a concert by pianist Artur Rubinstein, and informal programs at Thompson House.
From St. Louis students traveled to 'Williamsburg, Virginia, where they joined 50 American students from 41 states in the first meeting of the Student Burgesses. Students visited spots of historic interest, toured Jamestown, and ate typical colonial food at Chowning’s Tavern and Christiana Campbell’s.
For many of the students from year-round warm lands, the stay in Washington, as guests of Scholastic Magazines, was especially memorable because the group was “caught” in a week-end snowstorm that delayed their return to New York for two days and gave them more time for sight seeing on their own.
They visited the White House, where they were greeted by Sherman Adams, special assistant to President Eisenhower; had a luncheon with Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri, Senator John Kennedy of Massachusetts, Representative Brooks Hays of Arkansas and Representative D. S. Saund of California, saw the Capitol building, Senate and House chambers, Washington Monument, Lincoln Memorial, National Gallery of Art, and their own embassies.
On their return to New York the students were met by the third of four families who were their hosts for two-week periods. After spending a week together at Kober House on the Sarah Lawrence College campus, Bronxville, New York, following their arrival in the United States, the students parted to live with their first host family and attend their first school.
Each student was enrolled in two classes — one in which he was to learn something about this country, usually an American history class, and a second in which he was to teach something of his own country to the host students. Families and schools in New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Connecticut participated.
To qualify for the nationwide competition, which is held under the auspices of the country’s Ministry of Education, each aspiring delegate must have a good command of the English language, submit, in English, an essay entitled “The World We Want,” and be between the ages of 16 and 18 years. Finalists for the honor of being named delegate are interviewed by the Minister of Education of each country, an American representative and a third person chosen by these two. Since the beginning of the program, Pan American World Airways has participated annually by providing free transportation for winning delegates.
On March 26 the students left New York for Berlin where they spent a week as guests of the Ministry of All German Affairs. Visits to German schools with German host students, a Forum program in Congress Hall and tours of both West and East Berlin were planned for the teenagers. They left Berlin for their homes on April 3.