Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
PROFIT WITH A PURPOSE
Venezuela’s Industry and Trade by Lou A. Phillips
Contrary to the belief of many people, Venezuela is not a huge oil well. It is a Republic of five million people living in an area one-third again as large as that of Texas bordering the Caribbean Sea. Its population is increasing at the rate of one million every four years and it has the highest standard of living in Latin America. Per capita share of gross national product, which has nearly doubled in ten years, exceeds that of a number of European countries.
It is true that Venezuela’s main source of revenue is oil, and it is equally true that the oil companies are cooperative and have sparked national development. But 40 percent of current revenues do not come from oil. The fact is that successive Venezuelan governments, as sole administrators of their country’s revenues, have been wise investors, using the funds at their command constructively for the economic and social benefit of their citizens.
Basic to the understanding of the economy of the nation are a few geographic facts. The sixth largest country in South America, Venezuela covers 352,150 square miles of territory. To the north lies the Caribbean Sea; to the west, Colombia; to the east British Guiana; and to the south, Brazil. Although the country lies completely within the Torrid Zone, wide variations in altitude account for climatic conditions ranging from tropical to frigid. The nation’s principal geographical features are a 1,748 mile coastline, the mountain systems of the Andes in the west, the Coastal Range in the north and the Guiana Highlands of the southeast; the Orinoco River traversing the country from the Brazilian border to the Caribbean; and Lake Maracaibo in the hot lowlands of the northwest.
Economically, the most important part of the country is the rugged belt of Andean ridges and valleys stretching in a huge arc from the Colombian border to the Orinoco River delta but dipping in some places to permit the interior plains to approach the Caribbean. Although this relatively narrow mountain belt comprises only one-eighth of the country, about 70 percent of Venezuela’s population lives in it, and most of the temperate-zone food crops, as well as coffee, are produced there. Next in economic importance are the tropical lowlands around Lake Maracaibo. This is where another 15 percent of the population is settled and where currently the most productive oil fields are located. The third economic and geographic region is the thinly settled grasslands, known as llanos, stretching southward from the Andes to the Orinoco and its principal tributary, the Apure.
Three Oil Regions
Oil is known to exist in Venezuela in three regions covering 85 million acres, or
less than 7 percent of the country. There is the Maracaibo-Falcon Basin, extending around Lake Maracaibo and along the Colombian frontier in the west; the Ma-turin Basin, including the northeastern corner of the country as far as the Orinoco Delta; and the Barinas-Apure Basin in the llanos country south of the Andes. Total production during 1957 reached 2.9 million barrels a day. A daily output of 3.5 million barrels has been forecast for 1965 as new producing areas are brought in. One reason for granting new concessions is the need for tapping new resources in order to step-up output. Current daily output averages 150 barrels per well, compared with the Middle East average of 4,000 barrels daily
In utilizing their fabulous resource, often referred to as liquid gold, the Venezuelan Government has followed a policy officially known as “sembrando el petroleo” which literally means “sowing the petroleum.” That is, using private capital invested in the petroleum industry to help support general economic development in the nation. This working partnership achieved between the Government and foreign and domestic private capital has been not only profitable to all parties but also free from disturbing upsets. Since 1948, laws have provided that at least 50% of each oil company’s net taxable income must be paid to the National Treasury. In 1956, Treasury petroleum revenues amounted to the bolivar equivalent of $906,000,000. Oil companies have to pay two kinds of income taxes and a surtax. They must also pay import duties on the supplies brought into the country and buy Venezuelan currency above the current exchange rates. Income taxes, other than those collected from the oil companies, usually account for less than 10% of ordinary revenues. In general, tax rates on private income and business activity other than petroleum and mining are low.
By far the most important and productive wells are in the Bolivar Coastal fields, along the western shore of Lake Maracaibo, where considerable operations take place on and under the waters of the lake. The Maracaibo Basin is also noted for its large output of heavy crude oil. This heavy oil produces a high yield of residual fuel oils, — a valuable complement to the United States domestic production of mainly lighter crudes. Both heavy crudes and fuel oil have found a ready market along our industrialized Atlantic seaboard. Today Venezuela is the world’s largest exporter of oil and is second largest oil producer next to the United States.
Consumption at Home
Venezuela’s own consumption of petroleum products has been expanding steadily and is now, on a pfer capita basis, one of the highest in the world. These products
are supplied by domestic refineries whose capacity has increased ten times over that available prior to World War II. The expansion of refining capacity is in keeping with a 1943 law which required the oil industry to refine at least 10% of its oil output in Venezuela and to refrain from establishing additional refining capacity elsewhere in the Caribbean. Some of the recent concessions have required that as much as 30% of the resulting crude be refined domestically.
Along with petroleum deposits go extensive resources of natural gas. Up to now, most of the gas has been burned off at the well head or re-injected into the wells to facilitate petroleum extraction and conserve oil. Extensive plans are now underway for the construction of a nationwide pipeline network to bring natural gas to homes and industries. In undertaking this project, the Government wants to provide low priced fuel for home cooking and for the numerous industries being developed today, instead of wasting it, and to leave for export most liquid fuels, however economically they are produced from petroleum and sold to the public.
Existing gas pipelines today have a total length of slightly over 600 miles, the bulk being privately owned by oil companies. Among large cities, only Maracaibo has direct gas facilities for home consumption. Gas for cooking is used in many other cities, but it is distributed in metal cylinders attachable to stoves. It is estimated that the gas to be supplied by pipeline to domestic consumers will be 50 percent cheaper than by the current system of metal containers. Natural gas is also to be piped to Puerto Cabello, near which the Government has started to build a $300,-000,000 complex of petro chemical plants to produce chemical fertilizers, chlorine, caustic soda, synthetic rubber and explosives. The Petro-chemical Bureau, the Government agency that will manage the plants, will also build and manage the gas pipelines. It will work in cooperation with the Development Corporation, who in turn is to build the pipe distribution network first in the Caracas metropolitan area and then in other cities. In this endeavor, the country will be divided into three sections — central, western and eastern — following the pattern adopted by the Corporation for the National Electrification Program.
Other Mineral Resources
Venezuela has other mineral resources. There are proven reserves of about 2.2 billion tons of what is probably the richest iron ore in the world yielding 15 percent more iron than the ore from Minnesota’s Mesabi Range. The existence of huge lower-grade iron ore deposits, many of which can he mined by open-pit methods, has also been reported. So far, two large American steel corporations have invested around $300,000,000 in developing iron mines, building railways and conveyor belts, construction of ports and dredging the Orinoco. In 1956 about 11,000,000 tons of ore were shipped from El Pao and from the iron mountain of Cerro Bolivar. In 1957, over 15,000,000 tons of iron ore were