southeastward from Caracas to Ciudad Bolivar on the Orinoco. Its 200-mile extension to the Brazilian border will open up the mesa country. There are also several thousands of miles of feeder roads.
With its rugged topography, air transportation has played an extremely important role in the development of Venezuela. Today there are three principal domestic airlines linking cities and torvns in the country’s most remote regions. Caracas is only nine hours from New York via one-stop Pan American World Airways Flying Clipper schedules. Caracas is only 514 hours from Panama where connections are made with Pan American flights from New Orleans or Houston and Brownsville, Texas via Guatemala and Central America. One-stop Pan American flights from Miami to Caracas take 5y2 hours.
Cities of Venezuela
Caracas, the heart of Venezuela, was the birthplace of Simon Bolivar and the cradle of the independence movement against Spain. Founded in 1567, the city became the capital of its province in 1577 and the capital of the Republic in 1829. One of the most beautiful cities of South America, it occupies a narrow, garden-like valley flanked by the Avila range which forms a rugged barrier between the valley and the Caribbean only ten miles away. A vehicular tunnel piercing the mountain is now being constructed. The city’s elevation at approximately 3,000 feet above sea level affords a spring-like climate the year round. The metropolitan area of Caracas has a population of over 695,000, an increase of almost 14% since 1940.
La Guaira, Venezuela’s principal port and the seaport for Caracas is dramatically situated along a narrow strip of the Caribbean coast. Founded in 1589, it rises from its harbor on terraced ledges hewn from rock with one peak rising to 9,000 feet back of the city. The Venezuelan Government has spent approximately $22,000,000 to make this famous pirate rendezvous of the past, into one of the best equipped harbors in the Western Hemisphere.
Maracaibo is the second city of the Republic. It is situated on the west shore of the narrows which connect the Gulf of Venezuela with Lake Maracaibo. With the discovery of oil in 1914, Maracaibo began its phenomenal growth until today its population has increased five-fold to over 230,000.
In addition to petroleum, Maracaibo is a shipping center for such products of the entire Maracaibo Basin and the Andean hinterland as coffee, bananas, cotton, coconuts, rice, cattle and hides. Until now Maracaibo has had no direct communication by land with the part of Venezuela lying to the east of its lake. Work has been started on a bridge to span Lake Maracaibo which is expected to be completed during 1960. It will be over five miles long and will cost over $98,000,000. The structure will have railroad tracks in the middle
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
VENEZUELA
and it is estimated that it will handle about 6,000 vehicles a day. At present communication across the lake is effected by plane, ferryboat and occasional small surface craft.
Neither oil nor iron accounts for the impressive progress of the city of Barquisi-rneto. Located at the western gateway to the llanos the city of 105,080 people is an agricultural and commercial center with manufacturing industries having only recently become a contributing factor in its development. Plantations of pineapples famous for their sweetness, of sugar cane and sisal spread over the surrounding countryside. Situated in a luxurious Basin in the central Highlands about 96 miles west of Caracas is Valencia, the chief agricultural center of the country since its founding by the Spaniards in 1555. Puerto Cabello, a fine harbor on the Caribbean, is the seaport for Valencia, Barquisimeto and Maracay. With a population of 24,413, it has excellent docks and long stretches of sandy, snow-white beach.
Seventy-six miles west of Caracas, in the center of a rich and beautiful sugar and coffee region is the modern city and resort of Maracay. With a population of 65,761, it is today a thriving agricultural center and industrial city its principal industries being the manufacture of cotton and rayon textiles, glassware, asbestos products, cottonseed oil cake and beer.
Ciudad Bolivar, with a population of 31,009 is the the gateway to the Guiana Highlands. It is well on its way to becoming a boom town due to its proximity to the fabulous iron mountain fifty miles distant. It is both a shipping and distribution center for the southern llanos and the Guiana Highlands. Ocean-going vessels load valuable products of this vast region including rubber, balata, tonka beans, gold, diamonds and hides.
International Trade
Today Venezuela is the United States’ biggest market in South America, and with the exception of Canada, on a per capita basis, our best market in the whole world. In 1956, the value of United States goods sold to Venezuela amounted to more than $108 for every man, woman and child in that nation. According to a study prepared by Econometric Specialists, Inc., an independent research organization, for the Creole Petroleum Corporation, an affiliate of Standard Oil Company (New Jersey), which operates in Venezuela, the annual value of United States goods and services sold to Venezuela passed the billion-dollar rate. Other surveys have indicated that Venezuelan purchases in the United States provide business for at least 1,500 different firms situated in 750 cities and towns, in forty-five of the forty-eight states. An estimated 170,000 United States workers depend for their jobs on export trade with Venezuela.
Petroleum sales abroad, because of their steady expansion continue to account for
Page 9
more than 90 percent of Venezuelan exports, despite the vigorous growth of iron ore shipments. Sales of coffee, cacao, hides and diamonds, leading exports in the years before the petroleum bonanza, have been slowly declining in volume. The United States, which since World War II has replaced Europe as the chief importer of Venezuelan coffee and cacao, also takes the bulk of iron exports. It is about to replace Aruba and Curacao in the Netherlands Antilles as the chief importer of Venezuelan oil.
Venezuelan imports, about ten times greater in 1956 than before World War II, are increasingly dominated by capital goods, consumer durables and producers goods. The share of food imports and other consumer goods in total imports is declining. The United States supplies a little less than 60% of Venezuelan imports from abroad. More than half of these exports consisted of motor cars, industrial machinery, electrical equipment, highway construction machinery and steel mill products. West Germany is the second ranking-supplier of Venezuelan imports. European sales in Venezuela cover a wide variety of goods ranging from small machinery and motorcars to textiles and chinaware. Canada, a successful newcomer in the Venezuelan market, is a supplier of paper products, grains and dairy products.
Education in Venezuela
Keeping pace with economic development has been Venezuela’s educational facilities. Except for very advanced or specialized training, there is little need now for a Venezuelan to go abroad for his education, whether he wants to become a doctor, a dentist, a lawyer or a school teacher. There are exceptions, especially in some branches of medicine and engineering, but for most career purposes a Venezuelan can get a good education through the university level right at home and every year more of them are doing it.
In 1957 university enrollment totaled 6,500 in the country’s five universities. In 1938 it was just over 2,000 in the three institutions then in existence. Total school enrollment was 640,000 in 1954, compared to 230,000 in 1938, which indicates that nearly double the percentage of people of school age, five years to 24, were actually in school. This is one of the most dynamic aspects of Venezuelan life today.
With business activity at high levels, the economy growing, living standards rising and gold and dollar reserves among the highest in the world, Venezuela is in an enviable position. Part of the credit for this impressive progress must be given to its bountiul resources, but resources no matter how vast, add little to a country’s economic improvement if they are not developed. And Venezuela’s rapid development of its resources in such a manner as to benefit its own people did not happen by accident. It has been the result of a deliberate policy which required planning and hard work, and it is paying off.