Caraqueño would care to use. The plan in popular use is not so much a plan as it should be. Instead of naming their streets, Caraqueños have named the intersections. As there are almost 300 corners, a visitor has to face that interesting problem.
First, let us consider the designations that are not used: streets are numbered from the Avenidas and are known as East 3 or South 7. That would not be too clear to a Caraqueño, who prefers to locate a given house as standing between two intersections. For example, the intersection of Sur 5 with Este 14 is named El Muerto (The Corpse) ; the next intersection north is Sur 5 with Este 12, or El Viento (The Wind) . A house in the intervening block is addressed as number so-and-so entre El Muerto y El Viento (between the Corpse and the Wind) . And that is all.
These names go back to colonial days; their origin is generally known. Some are obvious: Camino Neuvo, (New Roads), La Viuda (The Widow) , La Garita (The Porter’s Lodge, or The Sentry Box) . Some of the names of the intersections, however, are less obvious: Desamparados (Abandoned Ones), Cola de Pato (Duck’s Tail) , El Sordo (The Deaf One) . Sometimes there is confusion, and sometimes there is teasing proximity: Las Delicias (The Sensual Pleasures) are a stone’s throw from La Viuda (The Widow) .
Bolivar’s birthplace and his home for many years is a handsome colonial residence between Traposos and San Jacinto. Casa Bolivar is a landmark in Caracas. The house is low, with almost severe lines, but is a far cry from a log cabin. Rooms surround a small patio containing a small fountain at which Simón was christened. The most interesting museum of Caracas is that dedicated to the Libertador. It contains uniforms, arms, books, and furniture used by Bolivar. A locket containing a bit of George Washington’s hair, which the family gave to Bolivar, is on display. Most dazzling item is a sword presented by Lima to Bolivar as a token of the city’s gratitude for his liberation of Peru. A medallion of gold rays set with diamonds, representing the “Sun of Peru”, is among the treasures. It was presented to Bolivar by General San Martin of Argentina when the two liberators met at Guayaquil, Ecuador.
The beautiful old Capitol building covers more than two acres and encloses a peaceful fountain and a flowering patio. The east and west wings of the building contain government offices; the north and south wings, the Elliptical Salon, and the Congressional chambers respectively. Paintings of Venezuelan heroes and a canvas of the Battle of Carabobo by Tovar y Tovar (on the ceiling) are hung in the Salon; also on display is an urn containing Venezuela’s Declaration of Independence signed July 5, 1811.
The Palace of Justice is on the south side of Plaza Bolivar. Along the north is the Palacio de la Gobernación; the west has the Casa Amarilla, or Yellow House, which once served as the presidential residence but is today the Foreign Ministry. On the east is the cathedral, a plain, severe church begun in 1665.
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
VENEZUELA
The presidential residence, Casa Mira-flores, at the end of Avenida Oeste, seems to be four buildings surrounding a formal patio with statues, flower beds, and a fountain — each side of the structure has its own steep, red-tiled roof. There are fine parks and plazas which provide resting, meeting, and recreation grounds for adults. There is a charming little square dedicated to Henry Clay. Here a statue of the American statesman acknowledges his advocacy of United States recognition of independence for the South American Republics. The willow tree in the plaza has sprouted from a cutting from Mount Vernon. El Calvario is a truly magnificent park atop a hill on the western edge of Caracas. It rises directly behind El Silencio, circular concrete steps cover the lower slope and terminate at a statue of Colón and a swarm of ice cream venders. Smaller stairs lead past a statue of Bolivar, flower beds and lily pools to the summit.
Caracas’ background of mountains is green in the wet season and brown in the dry. The ridges and folds of the hills are more curving than angular, as if they had been moulded of some soft substance. On clear days, the sky is a brilliant blue and clouds of dazzling whiteness darken the crests with vast moving shadows. Within easy motoring distance of Caracas, rich and beautiful farming country approaches the city’s borders. Especially attractive in March and April are the coffee plantations blooming with multitudes of white flowers; later on the harvesting and processing of cherry-like red berries is interesting to watch.
Both coffee and sugar estates can be seen on the celebrated excursion west from Caracas over the great Andean highway to Maracay and Puerto Cabello. From El Paraíso the road leads through magnificent mountain scenery, then the land widens out
Page 5
and coffee plantations appear. Among the towns passed is San Mateo of historical importance. Then the Maracay and from there the road descends towards Valencia. Valencia, a lowland town older than the capital, shows its age pleasantly in the grilled windows and iron-studded doors of its houses.
A great future for a free people
A Peruvian historian once said, “South American revolutions may be regarded as a necessary form of political activity . . . (and) the only means of defending liberty.” Venezuela is a case in point. Since its founding in 1830 it has been ruled by a succession of military men, punctuated by popular revolts. The latest (1958) , which seemed to come with the suddenness of a bolt of lightning out of the blue, was in reality a result toward which the country and people had been working over many years.
Venezuela is not what used to be called a “banana republic”. Venezuela is the greatest exporter of petroleum in the world, a large and growing producer of iron ore, a country where the United States alone has $3 billion in investments, holding a strategic position at the northern end of the South American continent which helps to make her a nation of first-rate importance.
Great social and political changes are taking place in Venezuela. The country has the means of achieving a progress of such nature because of its wealth that no other South American country can hope to realize. There are in Venezuela men of great talent — scholars, writers, scientists, artists — who will transform that land in a paragon of perfection. The future belongs to the Venezuelans; they have the will and the power to achieve their golden era.
The Hotel Tamanaco in Caracas is a member of the Intercontinental Hotels Corporation chain. In preparation for its opening a few years ago, much of its furniture was shipped
to Venezuela as Clipper Cargo.