10
Pan Amerîca N
World Airways Teacher
CENTRAL AMERICA
A SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I. PROBLEM: How can the countries of Central America help to supply the needs of the United States?
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	We need to know more about these countries which connect North and South America.
2.	The Panama Canal is an important lifeline and we should be familiar with the people and countries surrounding- it.
3.	A National Pair has been going on in Guatemala and there has been much publicity in connection with it.
4.	Several students may have traveled on part of the Pan American Highway and therefore will be interested in the countries through which it will continue.
5.	Panama just celebrated 50 years of independence.
6.	The number of tourists to these countries is increasing steadily.
II. PROBABLE DURATION:—3 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Stories about the Panama Canal. Why was it built here instead of in Nicaragua?
2.	Current newspaper stories such as:
a.	Retire Here With $1,000.
b.	Can Central America Find A Central Way?
c.	Presidents Woo Dollars for Nicaragua, Panama.
d.	Costa Rica Out To Lure Tourists.
e.	Managua Pretties Up For Tourists.
f.	Jurists of the Americas Meet In Guatemala.
g.	Panama Women Get A ‘New Deal’.
3.	Use movies and film strips suggested in this issue.
4.	Pictures of places of interest which some of the students may have gathered. If you have an opaque projector use the pictures on this.
5.	An airplane trip or a boat trip a teacher or student may have taken during a vacation.
6.	Reading some of the books suggested in this issue.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why is Guatemala called “Land of Eternal Spring”?
2.	What part do these countries play in the “Good Neighbor Policy”?
3.	Why are these countries strategically important?
4.	What industries and products make the United States dependent on these countries?
5.	What do we know about the people who inhabit these countries?
6.	What effect will the air age have on isolation among the Central American countries?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies—men who were responsible for discovering and colonizing these islands such as Bolivar, Columbus, Balboa; names of the seven countries (six of which are independent); their capitals and few important cities; changing importance of these countries in the air age; location of a few important rivers, lakes and mountains; some facts about their individual governments; industries and products; exports and imports; their customs and comparison of advances made in each country;
places of interest to the tourist; present public figures such as Anastasia Somazo, Antonio Re-mon, Cecillia Remon, Jose Fig-ueres. (Social Studies material will be found in the following pages).
2.	Language Arts:
a.	NEW words will come up as the work is gone over. Many of these are listed in this issue. It will also be fun to learn some of the Spanish words you will come across in your reading. Several of these are also listed. Pronunciation of places in Central America will also take extra careful study.
b.	Spelling—new words in the unit. Many of our words such as chocolate and cocoa came from Spanish words. Practice spelling the names of the countries and their capitals.
c.	Oral Communication — talking to each other explaining the travel folders and pictures should be an important part of this unit; reviewing a book; reporting an answer to a question; asking questions of people who have visited Central America; reading about some of the interesting and ancient customs aloud to your classmates; reporting on newspaper stories about Central America.
d.	Written Communicat ion —
writing for more information; (places are suggested in this issue) writing imaginary stories about such subjects as:
my trip through a banana or a coffee plantation my first drink of coconut milk
how manioc and bamboo are used
the day I visited the Mayan ruins
what I saw when I accompanied Columbus on his voyage
my trip through the Panama Canal
Central America from the air
writing notices for the bulletin board; planning trips by air to Central America, e. Literature—stories of Central America listed in the bibliography; find out about Ruben Dario, Nicaraguan lyric poet; San Jose National Theater; the Mayan system of writing.
3.	Science—study about eart h-quakes and volcanoes; the animal and bird life such as deer, wild turkeys, peccaries, jaguars, quetzal, danta, the river horse native to Guatemala; the flowers like the white orchid (Monja Blanca).
Lake Atitlan, 5000 feet above sea level; the jungles; the climate; the ruins of the Mayas; the reasons for success with bananas, coffee, chicle, mahogany and other products; the arch in Panama City; saltwater fish in the fresh waters of Lake Nicaragua.
4.	Health—rugged country means isolation which brings lowering of health standards; lack of medical care; swamps carry diseases; alligators, mosquitoes and sandflies are abundant; homes of the poor are poorly furnished; jungles create health problems; food, corn is the most important; they also eat the meat of the iguana (a kind of lizard) and of guinea pigs, bananas, rice, manioc, and beans; storing of foods in bamboo; story of yellow fever; sports like soccer; Central American Olympic games at the National Stadium in El Salvador.
5.	Music—the people of Central America enjoy music and have
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA—Girls in country dress pose beside solid wheeled ox-cart. Designs on cart are sometimes handed down from generation to generation