Pan Am errca tv
World Am ways Teacher
CHICHICASTENANGO, GUATEMALA—Natives burning incense on steps of the Church
Honduras was transferred by Spain to England by treaty in 1670, but at different times its occupation was contested by the Spaniards till 1783. Since that time it has remained quietly in the possession of Great Britain.1
Cities at a glance
In a small country its capital usually sums up the achievements of its people. That’s why a modern traveler, with, a few days or weeks at his disposal, can enjoy thoroughly and learn a lot about a particular country —in this case any or all the Central American Republics—by spending a while in the capital. Hence this brief summary of the various capitals of the Central American Republics. Each one has a flavor of its own, a quelque chose (in English you would say “there is something there”) different from the others, a meaningful name, a smile of friendship and of welcome.
Even the currency of each country poses a question. The quetzal, for instance, is a handsome bird of Central America, with a crest and long, hanging tail, once honored as a god, and now the national emblem and national currency of Guatemala. The córdoba is the monetary unit of Nicaragua, named in honor of Francisco Hernández de Córdoba (1475-1526), Spanish explorer in Panama and Nicaragua. The lempira, the monetary unit of Honduras, honors the name of an aboriginal chief. Panama’s monetary unit, the balboa, and Costa Rica’s colon are, of course, proper names of two great men—Balboa and Columbus. The monetary unit of each country is perhaps the word which you will use most frequently in arriving at any of the Central American Republics.
1 Not long ago a British cruiser was sent to Belize because of some minor complication.
Guatemala City
Guatemala City, capital of the country, is the home of some 350,000 people. It was rebuilt practically from scratch after having been almost destroyed by the earthquake of 1917-18, and is clean, modern and geometrical, one of the tidiest cities you’ll find in Latin America. According to official reports, there is one street cleaner for every street in Guatemala City. In constructing their capital, Guatemala went about the job logically. They laid out the town in numbered avenues and streets, the avenues running north and south, and the streets east and west.
North, south, east, and west in Spanish are norte, sur, oriene, and poniente. Street is calle, and avenue is avenida. With those six words of Spanish, and a slightly developed sense of direction, you will be able to find your way about Guatemala City with very little trouble. The capital has lovely plazas and gardens, fine buildings and museums. Not far from Guatemala City is Chichicastenango. Chichicastenango (it’s not so hard. Try it: Chee-chee-cas-ten-ango) is the classical Guatemalan Indian village. Its church, with Indian worshippers burning incense on the steps, is theme No. 1 of Guatemalan tourist literature. It is to Guatemala what the Statue of Liberty is to New York, the Eiffel Tower is to Paris, the Town Hall is to Stockholm, or the Sugar Loaf Mountain is to Rio.
Sundays and Thursdays the year round are market days and those are the days— best days—for a visit. Indians in their colorful costumes throng the market place, about five thousand of them, and flow on up the steps of the church. The Indian burns incense on the steps of the church before going inside to worship. Later he might go
to pray at pagan altars in his town or on neighboring hilltops, just to make certain he has not overlooked any possibility of divine intervention on his behalf.
San Salvador
San Salvador, lying at the foot of a volcano of the same name, in a pleasant semi-tropical valley, is the capital of El Salvador. At 2,236 feet above sea level, modern San Salvador is laid out in the general form of a cross, with four beautiful avenues meeting at the very center of the city—at Plaza Bolivar. There are fine buildings, among others the National Palace, the National University, Museum and several churches. The magnificent National Stadium, five miles outside of the city, was built especially for the Central American Olympic Games, held here in 1935. San Salvador is the largest city of the Republic as well as its chief commercial center, connected by rail or highway with all other towns of importance. Within a half-hour’s drive from the heart of the capital, the traveler may reach some of the finest coffee plantations in the Republic.
Tegucigalpa
Tegucigalpa, the capital and chief commercial city of Honduras, is situated on a plateau about 3,200 feet above sea level. Because of the altitude the climate is pleasant and mild. Founded in the 16th century at the foot of the mountain El Picacho, Tegucigalpa’s nearby silver and gold mines soon made it the leading city in the country. In fact, it is believed that the name Tegucigalpa is taken from the Indian words for “Silver Hills.” The city is so hilly that at several points streets of stairs connect one level with another. There is a fine Cathedral and Museum, and other important buildings such as the Presidential Palace, the National University and several schools. The city is one of the few capitals in the world without a railroad, but its air services are outstanding. Toncontin is the air terminal for the capital.
Managua
Managua, the capital of Nicaragua, overlooks Lake Xolotlan, some 28 miles from the Pacific coast. It is interesting to observe the life of this tropical city by walking through the principal downtown streets. The city, with a population of about 120,000, occupies a comparatively large expanse of land rising very gradually from the lake shores. Almost all the buildings are low, having usually one or two stories. The roofs are of red tile, the walls of concrete which, with its light color, gives a pleasing effect of freshness. In general, the houses are graceful and simple, without ornamental encrustations so common in other cities.
Managua has not been built around a single main plaza as have other Latin American capitals. The Central Park, in spite of its name, is on the northern edge of town close to the lake. Next to it are situated the park and monument to Ruben Dario. Dario was only thirteen when he first arrived in Managua from Leon. He worked in the National Library, reading thoroughly the Spanish classics. His early journalistic contributions revealed h i s genius. In his early youth he went to Chile and in successive years he traveled through Argentina, Spain, France, Cuba, Mexico and