Pak Ameríca\
Wo mo Airways
15
PAN AMERICAN TO SERVE CHICAGO AND DETROIT
(Continued from page 14)
the two midwest cities to London also will be added in June, providing a total of three weekly flights to points in Europe during the summer.
All flights will originate in Chicago and stop in Detroit before going to Gander. Return flights will follow the same route, stopping in Detroit and terminating in Chicago.
The 300-mile-an-hour, 78-passenger Clippers will make the 3,949 mile flight from Chicago to London in 18 hours and the 3,754 mile flight from Detroit in 16 hours. Flight time from Chicago to Hamburg will be 19 hours and 45 minutes and to Stockholm 23 hours and 30 minutes. Detroit passengers will reach Hamburg in 17 hours and 45 minutes and Stockholm in 21 hours and 30 minutes.
At present Pan American plans to operate only tourist-class service from the midwest cities.
Mr. Lipscomb said the midwest service will be started to provide the residents of the two great industrial areas of Chicago and Detroit with direct one plane service by a U.S.-flag carrier. The service also will provide for the first time a direct link between the Scandinavian countries and the Middle West area of the United States.
PACIFIC AIRLIFT MISSION
In three years, four months and one day of service of the greatest aerial mass move-mant of men and materials the world has ever known, the Pacific Airlift, Pan American World Airways and its scheduled airline subcontractors made 2,604 trips across the Pacific bearing military passengers and cargo. The project was concluded November 1.
A total of 114,271 passengers were carried, more than eight million pounds of mail and 23 million pounds of cargo, much of it whole blood.
First plane on the airlift was the Pan American Clipper Argonaut which left the West Coast on June 30, 1950 within a few hours of a telephone call from the Department of Defense. Formal contracts came later.
At the height of the airlift, Pan American, the largest civil contractor, operated 27 airplanes. Its subcontractors were American Airlines, Capital Airlines, Eastern Air Lines, Pan American-Grace Airways (Pa-nagra), and Western Airlines.
One of the most important early emergency cargoes was the new-type bazooka which helped stop the Red advance in the fall of 1950. Other cargoes, beside whole blood, have been winter clothing, aircraft engines and spare parts, and tons of soldier mail. Jet fighter crews, technical specialists, USO entertainers, generals and ordinary soldiers made up the passenger lists.
One important example of the reserve power of the scheduled fleet was “Operation Fox Peter,” a successful experiment which proved that an entire fighter wing could be efficiently transported by air with all its ground staff and equipment from eastern United States to Japan.
MODEL AVIATION BOOK SHELF
The Model Aircraft Handbook, by William Winter, 200 pp., 94 drawings. Thomas Y. Crowell Co., New York 16, N. Y., $3.50
This aviation modeler’s bible, originally published in 1941, now appears in a third edition, completely revised, with plain language technical information that is indispensable to any builder. The veteran “hot” contest flyer uses it as a reference— —the newcomer needs it to learn his hobby, whether he intends to fly in contests, or simply to fly for fun in a vacant lot.
The theory of flight, as applied to model airplanes, is explained. The reader is told how to set up working plans for his model, and how to proceed with construction. Chapters are devoted to engines, propellers, covering and landing gears. The various types of models, ranging from the simple hand launched stick glider up to complex radio control models are discussed.
A section telling how to start and break in a brand new gas engine in such a way as to assure top performance and long life is the best such explanation this reviewer has seen.
New developments since preparation of the second edition are discussed thoroughly, and these include payload models for the Pan American World Airways PAA Load Event, Navy carrier models, team racers, and new developments in control line and jet models, including jetex.
Diesel engines appeared at the Model contests this summer in considerable numbers and won so many important events that it seems a new trend may have been established; the handbook includes a section on Diesels.
A modeler himself for more than twenty-five years (his current enthusiasm is radio controlled models), Mr. Winter is the Editor of Model Airplane News.
1953 Model Aeronautic Year Book, Edited by Frank Zaic, 126 pp., sketches and model plans. Model Aeronautics Publications, New York 3, N. Y., $1.00.
There is a science of model aeronautics just as surely as there is a science which underlies the design and production of full size airplanes, and the man who keeps the log of the steady advance of scientific modeling is the editor of the Model Aeronautic Year Book.
The 1953 edition begins with a discussion by the editor of such matters as longitudinal stability, trimming and adjusting of models, center of gravity location, etc., with special reference to new things learned in the past twelve months. Then follows a wide selection of new models with complete plans and design notes. Many of the drawings are by the editor—others by those who designed the models.
Contributors include famous modelers all over the United States: John Worth discussing radio control, Parnell Shoenky with design notes on his “Pacific Clipper” for the PAA Clipper Cargo Event, Sal Taibi on the floats for his “rise off water” model at the 1951 national championships, Carl Hermes on the subject of stressed skin wings, and many others.
The book is a must for the experienced scientific modeler, and for the younger modeler who takes his hobby seriously and wants to learn as much as he can about the scientific principles upon which he depends for success in building and flying.
The Model Plane Manual, by Walter A. Musciano, 160 pp., illustrations by the author. The McBride Company, New York Building and Flying Scale-Model Aircraft, by Walter Musciano, 174 pp., illustrations by the author. The McBride Co., New York
Mr. Musciano’s manual, with the clear and simple explanations of all phases of modeling and its numerous photographs and drawings, appears to be exceptionally well adapted to the neophyte modeler. Principles are illustrated by including directions and scales plans for representing models of different categories, and instructions for flying the completed models are included.
Useful information in the final chapter is a listing of prominent model clubs, and a schedule of the more commonly used building materials and components, together with representative prices.
The second book, by the same author, can well serve as a companion volume. It gives directions and plans for twelve different models, including free flight, control line, scale and jet types.
PAA SELLS IN 25 LANGUAGES
In totaling up the number of languages it uses in all parts of the world to sell its services, Pan American World Airways found that among the twenty five were such little known ones as Sanskrit, Pushtu, Fiji, Thai, Tagalog and Papiamento.
Sanskrit has often been suggested as the national language of India. Pushtu is spoken in Afghanistan: PAA uses it for radio spots on Radio Kabul in the capital. Fiji is in the Melanesian group of languages which are mostly spoken by South Sea Islanders of negroid origin.
Thai is one of the Sino-Tibetan monosyllabic languages, like Chinese, in which there are no inflections or grammatical endings— tone or pitch is used to convey the differences of meaning of words otherwise similarly pronounced. Example: the word for both “mother” and “horse” in Chinese is “ma”, and the only way of telling them apart is that each is spoken in a different key.
Tagalog is spoken in the Philippines.
Papiamento is spoken in the Curacao territory of the Netherlands West Indies. Its basic elements are Spanish, Dutch, Portuguese, French and English, but a total of forty five nationalities (the Carib, Arawak Indians, negroes, etc.) have formed the language over four centuries.
Dutch is the language of Curacao, but Papiamento is used for all conversation. The local missionaries use it, says a local PAA representative, as does the airline. Recently Shakespeare was performed for the first time in Papiamento.