Pan American
World Airways Teacher
11
bands in the plazas; one is usually a marimba band; popular song, “Managua-Nicaragua”; songs from “Songs and Games of the Americas.”
6.	Art — original paintings after having read about some of the beautiful scenery; the Mayan ruins; the temples and palaces; the planning of Guatemala City; colorful costumes of the Indians; Art Museums in Central America; Costa Rica’s. National Museum; Spanish influence in architecture and the beginnings of modern design; Mayan paper and written symbols.
7.	Mathematics-—number system of the Mayas; each dot (.) represented 1; first to use the zero in their calendar; their accurate calendar; value of monetary units in each country of Central America, quetzal, cordoba, lempira, balboa, colon; how the people of Panajachel, Guatemala live on $160 a year; Costa Rica’s new airport; graphs on production of coffee, bananas and other chief exports; comparisons of the populations and areas of the 7 countries; large numbers used in bunches of bananas and pounds of coffee exported; figures used in the study of the Panama Canal; calculation of time, money and air miles in planning a trip to Central America by plane.
B.	Skills: In this unit it might be a good idea to concentrate on skimming and comparisons, judgments and estimations. There will be much to read in a short time and many facts for each of the countries will have to be compared.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1. An understanding of the increasing importance the air age has brought and will continue to bring to the countries of Central America.
2.	An understanding of the need and value of inter-American cooperation.
3.	An interest in better living for all Americans.
4.	An attitude of respect and appreciation for our American neighbors.
5.	An interest and sympathy in the problems of Central American countries.
6.	An understanding of why there will be many varying points of view.
7.	An interest in the use of their resources and the skills of their people.
8.	An understanding of how the geography of these countries affects the history.
V. SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A. Things To Do:
1.	Keep an up to date Bulletin Board in your classroom of news items about Central America.
2.	Draw a large map of Central America and locate places mentioned using pins with colored heads or small pieces of colored paper.
3.	Make a chart showing the population, area, capital, principal exports and important historical events, of each of the countries.
4.	Make a list of Spanish words and their English meanings.
5.	Make a product map of Central America.
6.	Have an exhibit of products from Central America. Attach a colored ribbon from each product to the place on the map from which it comes.
7.	Have a display of art work showing some of the Mayan relics and scenes of life in Central America today.
8.	Collect coins and stamps from Central America.
9.	Prepare a class quiz using some of the material in this issue.
SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA—Tourists chat with farmer as he pauses on road with his ox-cart
10.	Write for material suggested in this issue.
11.	Plan trips to various places in Central America.
12.	Plan the remainder of the Pan American Highway.
13.	Use movies and strip films.
14.	Read stories about Central America.
15.	Try to And some “Pen Pals” in Central America.
B. Culmination:
1.	Any item mentioned above may be used as a culmination.
2.	Invite other classes to share what you have done.
3.	Make slides on the items of interest in each country.
4.	Have each committee prepare a scrap book.
5.	Have a question and answer period to see whether you remember all you have read.
VI. MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
A.	As many books, magazines and pictures as possible.
B.	Audio visual aids; records, movies, strip films, globes, atlas, maps, travel folders.
C.	Personnel:
1.	Teachers and parents who have visited Central America.
2.	Airline personnel who will talk to the students.
VII. LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
This study should create an interest in studying about the countries of South America which are similar in
many ways.
A REVIEW FOR YOU I. How much Spanish did you learn?
temporales
quetzal
cordoba
lempira
balboa
colon
II.
torrential rain bird, national emblem and currency of Guatemala
monetary unit of Nicaragua
monetary unit of Honduras
monetary unit of Panama
monetary unit of Costa
Rica
north
south
east
west
street
avenue
swallows
Central America locate
Pacific Ocean Belize
Chichicastenang
Tegucigalpa
Lake Xolotlan
San Jose
Comayogua
Granada
Antigua
III.
norte sur
oriente poniente calle avenida golondrinas On a map of the following:
Caribbean Sea Mexico
Guatemala City San Salvador Toncontin Managua Panama City Leon Colon Copan
GENERAL QUESTIONS:
1.	What city in Central America is known as one of the cleanest in the world?
2.	Why are most of the homes in Central America built low?
3.	Which is the largest Central American country?
4.	Why is it hard to build and maintain roads?
5.	Which are the most valuable lands of the Central American countries?
6.	What day is important in the life of all Central American people?
7.	Which is the most Northern country in Central America?
8.	In which country did marimba music originate?
9.	Which lake is 5000 feet above sea level?
10.	Who form the majority of inhabitants of Central America?
11.	What is exported from every country in Central America?
12.	Which is the smallest republic of Central America? The largest?