Pam Amer îca/v
Wo R id Airways Teacher
7
the United States. Whether he was reviving old forms or experimenting with original ones, Dario’s verse was always musical. At its highest it treated universal themes with flawless certainty of touch. Never was a man of letters more acclaimed by his own country. When Dario returned to Managua in 1907 at the height of his prestige, five thousand people gathered to give him a delirious welcome, the church bells were rung, men carried him on their shoulders to the hotel where a banquet was held for him, and he was declared the guest of honor of the Republic. Dario did not see Managua again after this visit until 1916 when, mortally ill, he came back and died. He was buried in Leon Cathedral under a marble lion. At Managua by popular subscription throughout the nation the monument was erected to him in Parque Dario. Dario lifted Spanish poetry to new heights. Modernism—the school he founded—emphasizes art for art’s sake, beauty, love of the exotic. Dario’s poetry sings in the choicest vocabulary and rhythmical skill strangely contradictory themes : the senses, art as the rare and the unusual, and the search for peace, born of an awareness of the loneliness of the human soul. Nicaragua’s son is the pride of the Spanish world.
San Jose
San José, the capital and major city of Costa Rica, is centraljy located in a high fertile valley at 3,816 feet above sea level. The center of Costa Rican business, political and cultural life, the metropolitan atmosphere is heightened by the varied colonial and modern architecture adorning its well planned broad, asphalted avenues. San José offers an extensive program of cultural activities to all its citizens. Foreign as well as national artists perform before huge audiences in the National Theatre. The city has a fine National Museum. It contains excellent historical and archeological records of Costa Rica’s past. Among its collections is an assemblage of Central American pottery, and relics of pre-colonial civilizations including gold and Maya ornaments as well as records of colonial history are also displayed here. The National Library serves as the center of library activities throughout the country.
Costa Rica’s Spanish origin is very apparent in her private dwellings. Although modern designs are infiltrating many of the newer residential areas, tile roofed and grille windowed houses built flush to the sidewalk betray the Old World influence. While Colonial Spanish and Renaissance style architecture are manifested in the majority of the churches and public buildings, the newer edifices in the capital of San José are modern in design. The Municipal Palace completed in 1937 exemplifies the new trend toward the ultramodern.
Panama City
In Panama every worthwhile tourist sight lies compactly within the old city limits. In fact, so conveniently placed are these sights within the hilly, boot-shaped peninsula—about half a mile square—that the slower walker can comfortably “do” them in two hours, or even less.
Surrounded as it is by the restless Pacific and dominated by jungle-green Ancon Hill,
Panama’s most typical sight is nevertheless found in almost every calle or plaza. For Panama is a city of balconies, tiers of beautifully decorated balconies breathing of Old Spain in even the most prosaic back street. Right from the start, you’ll see balconies, balconies and still more balconies.
Parque de la Catedral forms the heart of the older and more interesting section of the city. It is also the roosting spot of the famous golondrinas. A visit at sunset is worth while, for the sight of the evening skies darkened by clouds of these swallows is superior to many other known inanimate sights. Nearby stands Santo Domingo Church, best known for its wide-span, unsupported brick arch. This arch helped to win for Panama its canal in place of the rival route through Nicaragua which was then strongly favored. Early surveyors were impressed by the solidity of the centuries old archway. They reasoned that subterranean disturbances on the isthmus must be negligible, and the region well suited to large scale canal installations.
There is an excellent promenade called Las Bovedas, which offers a fine view point for the Pacific shores. You can see Fort Amador causeway, a popular Canal Zone bathing spot, complete with protective shark barrier, and fanned by almost constant sea
breezes. Other parts of interest are the National Assembly, the National Palace, the Library, and then you will want to- enter the iron gates to a wide, stone-flagged courtyard and see what lies below: aged sailing craft line the shore either loading or discharging tropical fruits or fuel. The whole place buzzes with activity. By bearing right at the tree-shaded junction at the head of the market wharves, you soon become part of the jostling, good-natured crowd that throngs the market jetties and spills from sidewalk to sidewalk in a solid mass of bobbing heads. Central Avenue is the backbone of the older city. Ahead of you stands Santa Ana Church on a plaza of the same name, and the main shopping center. A vast emporium bulging with the finest handicrafts of half the world stretches away to your right.
You say “adios”
Your PA A Clipper may be waiting in one hour. You have seen not only the sights of Panama but the cities of every Central American Republic. You have left some friends there, you have established yourself as simpatico and have received the hospitality of men and families who want to be friends. And perhaps you will return again.
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
World Airways Teacher is a quarterly publication distributed free of charge to teachers.
Each issue includes a teaching unit on some area of the world, suitable for adaptation to geography and social studies programs, also news about flying and about educational travel.
If you do not receive World Airways Teacher now, request it by sending a two cent post card to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
CHICHICASTENANGO, GUATEMALA—Health and happiness of a family is prayed for by the head of the family and it consists of a special ritual. He says prayers, sprinkles rose petals on the floor and lights candles, then makes the sign of the cross before each member of the family blessing them and asking for health and happiness for them