BIBLIOGRAPHY
Our American Neighbors—Meyer, Gray, Hancock—Follett
Living in Latin America—Powers, Bowen —Winston
Neighbors in Latin America—Smith et al— Winston
Letters from Guatemala—Goetz—Heath Exploring Latin America—Hancock— Merrill
Fiesta Lands—Ford—Llarian The Two Crosses of Todos Santos—Oakes Pantheon (anthropology)
The Cedar Tree (Guatemala)—Burbank— McCann
Lands of Middle America—Castaneda-— Macmillan
Magic Money (Costa Rica)—Clark— Viking
Wings Over Central America—Crespi— Scribner
Little Pepito of Central America—Erskine —Flanagan
Manuelito of Costa Rica—Crespi—Messner Panchita (Guatemala)—Goetz—
Harcourt Brace Eagle of Guatemala—Raine—•
Harcourt Brace
Central American Roundabout—Rothery— Dodd Mead
Three in the Jungle—Shields—
Harcourt Brace
Pablo of Flower Mountain (Honduras) — Von Hagen—Nelson
Riches of Central America—Von Hagen— Heath
Panama—Henry—American News Forgotten Finca (Panama)-—Von Hagen— American News
Gift of the Earth (Costa Rica)—Crespi— Scribner
Around the Caribbean—Bourglon et al— Heath
Caribbean Lands—Carpenter—
American Book
Panama Canal—Considine—Random Mystery of the Mayan Jewels—Crespi & Lee—Scribner Caribbean Carnivel—Owen Picture Map Geography of Mexico and Central America—Quinn—Lippincott Three in a Jungle—Shields Guatemala—Bailey—American News Honduras—Bailey—American News Costa Rica—Donaldson—American News Nicaragua—Donaldson—American News El Salvador-—Donaldson—American News River Horse—Frey—Scott Elementary Geography-—Niver—Hinds, Hayden, Eldredge
Essentials of Geography—Brigham & Mc-Farlane—American Book Honduras, Costa Rica, Guatemala—Coordinator of Inter American Affairs, Department of Commerce Building, Washington, D. C.
Panama Canal
The Mayas—Pan American Union, Washington, D. C.
Across Seven Seas to Seven Continents Aitchson et al—Bobbs Merrill By Caribbean Shores—Greenbie—Row Peterson
Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador—Pan American Union, Washington, D. C. Visits in Other Lands—Atwood et al—Ginn Latin America-Twenty Friendly Nations —Cutright et al—Macmillan
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
CENTRAL AMERICA
Motion Pictures
1.	Central America. 11 min., sound, b&w, Encyclopedia Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
The geography and climate of Central America and the story of its peoples and their present-day activities. An animation sequence orients Central America as the western part of the Caribbean Region, and sketches the political history from the time of Columbus to the present. Photographic sequences depict the types of people and economic activities of the region, including agriculture, manufacturing, commerce and transportation.
2.	Central America. 11 min., sound, b&w, Teaching Film Custodians, Inc., 25 W. 43rd Street, New York, N. Y.
Random scenes stress the volcanic origin of Central American mountains and reveal various native groups at work and play.
3.	Guatemala (Cross Section of Central America), 20 min., sound, b&w, United World-Educational, 1445 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.
Shows the life and occupation of the Indian people of Guatemala including the felling of mahogany trees in the forests, and farming on the high plateaus. Emphasizes how the change in altitude affects the climate, products, and mode of living of the people. Concludes with a visit to Guatemala City.
4.	Guatemala Story. 15 min., sound, color, Encyclopedia Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
Presents people and industries, geography and customs, native Indians at work and at play, modern cities and buildings.
5.	Natives of Guatemala. 11 min., sound, b&w, Bailey Films, Inc., 6509 De Long-pre Ave., Hollywood 28, Calif.
The purpose of this picture is to promote the growth in understanding and appreciation of our Latin-American neighbors by paralleling similarities as well as showing differences in the beliefs and ways of living of the people of North and South American countries
6.	Republic of Guatemala. 22 min., sound, color, Pan-American Union, Washington 6, D. C.
Treats the following: physical geography, pre-Columbian history, conquest and colonization, independence and the modern republic, agricultural products, markets, and Guatemala City.
7.	Costa Rica. 17 min., sound, color, March of Time, McGraw-Hill Co., 330 West 42nd St, New York, N. Y.
Shows how the people of Costa Rica are working to improve and diversify their nation’s agriculture, and to raise their standard of living.
8.	Jack’s Visit to Costa Rica. 10 min, sound, B&W, Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg, Chicago 1, 111.
Dramatizes the visit of a typical American boy with friends in Costa Rica. The similarities and differences between life in this little republic and in our country are strikingly brought out thru Jack’s stay at the home of a Costa Rican family, his trips to public schools, the city market, zoo, plantation —each being used as a basis of comparison with the United States.
9.	Fabulous Honduras. 22 min, sound, color, Gulf Oil, Gulf Bldg, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
Photographed by Dr. Arthur C. Twomey, ornithologist and lecturer of Carnegie Museum, Pittsburgh. A trip through the Honduras with shots of banana plantations and other forms of agriculture and pictures of ruins of the Mayan civilization.
10.	Panama. Crossroads of the Western World. 10 min, sound, b&w, Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg, Chicago 1, 111.
Panama has long been the crossroads of travel and trade between North and South America and between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. The intermingling of people and the transience of population have left a mark on its cultural and economic life. This film is a summary and appraisal of the influences determining Panamanian culture and economy.
11.	Building the Panama Canal. 11 min, sound, b&w, Knowledge Builders, 625 Madison Ave, New York, N. Y.
Begins with historic scenes of the actual building of the canal. Shows the uniting of the Pacific and Atlantic Oceans. How the locks operate. Concludes with a trip through the canal.
12.	Panama. 16 min, sound, b&w, McGraw-Hill, 330 West 42nd Street, New York, N. Y.
A film story of the narrowest strip of land in the western hemisphere which has been in the news almost continuously for sixty-five years and figures prominently in the future of the United States. For more than thirty years the United States has operated that international traffic channel, the Panama Canal.
Filmstrips
1. Guatemala. 23 frames, color, Eyegate House, 330 West 42nd Street, New York. N. Y.
Shows various scenes of the life of the people and points of interest in the cities and countryside.
(Continued on page 14)