14
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
(Continued from page 13)
2.	Jose Harvests Bananas. 40 frames, color, Young America, 18 E. 41st Street, New York, N. Y.
Art work illustrations present a story based on the daily life of a boy or girl in Guatemala. Intended to give students an understanding and appreciation of life in other lands.
3.	Honduras. 23 frames, color, Eyegate House
Scenes of the cities, people and major and agricultural industries of the country, including the harvesting of bananas.
4.	El Salvador. 25 frames, color, Eyegate House
Scenes of the country and its people, including major industries such as coffee raising.
5.	Panama Canal and Canal Zone. 32 frames, color, Eyegate House
Scenes of the people of Panama and details of the Panama Canal. Three maps in color locate the country, show the location of the canal and highlight its importance to world trade.
Stillfilms
Available from Stillfilm, Inc., 171 South Los Robles Ave., Pasadena 5, Calif.
In each of these six stillfilms on the countries of Central America—(1) Guatemala, (2) Honduras, (3) El Salvador, (4) Nicaragua, (5) Costa Rica and (6) Panama— there are maps of the country, and pictures of the lakes, cities, peoples, churches, industries, occupations, universities, villages, markets, etc. These stillfilms are in color, 46 frames, include 23 pictures and 23 titles. (Editorial Note: Rental fees are charged by all commercial distributors, and in some cases such fees are charged for use of sponsored films. For example, the films on Australia mentioned in the November issue are subject to a service charge. Your audio-visual director can advise, or check directly with the distributor.)
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Department of Cultural Affairs, General Secretariat—Pan American Union, Washington, D. C.
Panama Mail Steamship Co.—10 Hanover Square, New York City Honduras Consulate General—17 Battery Place, New York City Costa Rica Consulate General—420 Lexington Avenue, New York City Nicaragua Consulate General—
RKO Building, New York Ciy Panama Consulate General—1270 6th Ave., New York City
Panama National Tourist Commission—350 5th Avenue, New York City Guatemala Consulate General—30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City Guatemalan Tourist Association—11 E. 48th Street, New York City Consulate General El Salvador—55 W. 42nd Street, New York City.
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
LAKE ATITLAN, GUATEMALA—In the Village of Santiago, the Fiesta of St. James is celebrated with many dances. Here is a scene depicting the Conquest—the story of Pedro de Alvarado, the conqueror of Guatemala, defeating the Indian chiefs
PAA BEGINS “FIESTA” TOURIST SERVICE TO CENTRAL AMERICA
A new low-fare tourist service to Central America was inaugurated by Pan American World Airways on January 1.
Fanning out from the gateway cities of Los Angeles, Houston, Brownsville, New Orleans and Miami, Pan American’s new “Fiesta” tourist service serves the areas of Mexico, Panama and Central America. Operated with a fleet of modernized, 66-seat, Constellation-type Clippers, Fiesta tourist flights provide meal and beverage service at no additional cost to passengers as standard features.
Fiesta tourist fares offer savings averaging 17 per cent. The price of a Pan American ticket from Los Angeles to Guatemala, for example, was slashed from $160 to $128. From Houston to Panama, via Mexico City the new fare is $139 as against the former scale of $172.
Houston-Mexico City fares were cut back from $48 to $40, New Orleans to Guatemala from $95 to $76 and Miami to Guatemala, $102 to $82. Similar savings are offered all along the line. The fare between San Salvador and Panama, for instance, was cut from $75 to $60, a 20 per cent re-
duction. There are 20 flights weekly between Houston and Mexico City as compared to 14 previously.
Certain Fiesta tourist service schedules were designed to provide connections in Panama with Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra) flights to and from the West Coast of South America. They also connect directly with U.S. domestic first-class and coach flights at Los Angeles, Houston, New Orleans and Miami, becoming an important factor in increasing tourism between the U.S. and Middle America.
Certain Fiesta flights in this area are designated “El Pacifico” operating fast 16-hour service between Los Angeles and Panama, connecting with Panagra’s “El Pacifico” tourist flights for Guayaquil, Lima, Santiago and Buenos Aires.
Pan American’s Constellation Clippers have been equipped with new pressurization and ventilating systems, an improved type of reading light and have newly-decorated interiors. Their 66 seats permit the utmost in passenger comfort and relaxation while fully utilizing cabin space of the aircraft.
PAN AMERICAN TO SERVE CHICAGO AND DETROIT
Pan American World Airways will inaugurate direct service to Europe from Chicago and Detroit on April 30, Willis G. Lipscomb, Vice President Traffic and Sales, has announced.
The service will be operated with Douglas Super-6 Clippers on Fridays to London by way of Gander and Shannon.
In June the airline will inaugurate direct service from the midwast to Scandinavia. Tourist-class flights will operate on Tuesdays from Chicago and Detroit to Prestwick, Scotland;Hamburg, Germany;Copenhagen, Denmark and Stockholm, Sweden.
A second weekly flight on Sundays from (Continued on page 15)