Pan American
World Airways Teacher
4
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO CENTRAL AMERICA
Our flight to Central America may begin from four U. S. cities—Los Angeles, Houston, Miami or New Orleans. We board a 66-passenger Constellation-type Clipper of Pan American’s new Fiesta Service.
From New Orleans we would span the blue Gulf of Mexico, pause briefly at Merida, capital of Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula, before arriving at Guatemala City, one of the most interesting capitals in Central America. From Miami, we also stop in San Salvador, capital of El Salvador, the smallest Central American republic. From Los Angeles we could fly non-stop to Guatemala City in 8$4 hours, spanning Mexico en route.
Let us, instead, board our Clipper at Houston, Texas, and fly first to Mexico City, which we reach in about three hours.
Mexico City lies in a valley 7,350 feet above sea level, ringed by mountains. The most famous of these rugged peaks are snow-capped Popocatepetl and Ixtacci-huatl. Before the Spanish conquistador, Iiernan Cortez, came to Mexico in 1519 to conquer the nation, the city was the heart of the Aztec Empire and was called Ten-ochtitlan. Today Mexico City is a bustling metropolis of 3,000,000 population. It is a city of Spanish colonial mansions and skyscraper office buildings and apartment houses. O11 its streets one sees well-dressed people and barefoot Indians.
Vast Chapultepec Park, with its thousand-year-old cypress trees, the centuries-old National Palace, official residence of the Spanish viceroys from 1698 until the establishment oij the republic of Mexico, the enormous Aztec Calendar Stone in the museum that is part of the Palace, are sights well worth seeing in Mexico City.
The flight from Mexico City down to Guatemala City is an appropriate curtain raiser to the grandeur of the Central American countries’ natural beauty. The Clipper passes the snow-capped peak of Orizaba, cruises over the arid, eroded rocklands of Southwestern Mexico, bursting suddenly on the dense greenery of Guatemala.
There are two Guatemalas—the heated coastal strips where banana trees grow and the shady mountain valleys where coffee is raised.
Guatemala City, the capital, is in the country’s upper heartland.
Although it is only about a thousand miles from the equator, the altitude (about a mile above sea level) and the breezes from the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean make the climate Spring the year-round.
An earthquake almost demolished Guatemala City in 1917. For that reason it is a shining new city with few ancient landmarks. Like Mexico City, it is ringed by mountains. In the highland valleys are interesting towns where one may see the colorfully dressed Indians, descendants of the Mayas. Colonial Guatemala lives on at Antigua, the former capital, about an hour’s ride from Guatemala City. Its ruins—the result of an earthquake—are a living monument to the splendor of New Spain.
The mountains fall away abruptly on the short flight between Guatemala and El Salvador. For the first time on the trip
there is in the distance a smooth horizon— the Pacific Ocean.
San Salvador is a bustling coffee center but the most interesting sights are in the countryside. There are good roads and nothing is very far in a land no bigger than the state of Maryland.
The first thing a visitor should plan is an evening trip to Izalco, a village at the foot of an active volcano. The volcano, also named Izalco, erupts every five to eight minutes, throwing a geyser of flames and molten rock high into the sky.
One of the best known resorts of El Salvador is the black beach of volcanic ash at the Pacific port of La Libertad. Another is Lake Ilopango, only six miles from the capital.
Because the airstrip in Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras, cannot yet take planes as large as the Constellation-type Clippers, we board a DC-3 Clipper for the 55-minute trip.
With its narrow streets climbing steeply up the mountainside behind the Choluteca River, Tegucigalpa is the most picturesque of the Central American capitals.
This city has retained its Spanish colonial atmosphere. Here again, the Spanish con-quistadores founded a city in the healthy highlands. Tegucigalpa is 3,200 feet above sea level.
The city has Indian markets, flowering parks and ancient churches. But the real sight in Honduras is Copan, founded by the ancient Mayas sometime between the First and Eighth Century A.D. It can be reached in two hours by air from Tegucigalpa.
Almost nothing is known of Copan’s story for although it is probably written there in thousands of stone hieroglyphs, no one has yet found the key to decipher them. Its series of great plazas and places are believed to have been the heart of a metropolis of 250,000 people, who abandoned it for reasons unknown.
Our Clipper crosses Honduras in flying westward to Managua, the capital of Nica-
ragua. En route the Clipper passes the volcano of Momotombo, puffing like an overworked locomotive. Then comes Lake Managua. Spread along the shores of this lake, the Nicaraguan capital shades itself with endless parks. Its buildings are low and the most interesting sight is Huellas de Acahualinca, human and animal footprints made in lava 2,000 to 10,000 years ago.
Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast was long a pirate hideout and the town of Bluefields, named for the Dutch buccaneer Blewfeldt, remains to keep alive the memory of the adventurers who preyed on Spanish ships.
From Managua to San Jose, the capital of Costa Rica, the Clipper trip takes an hour and thirty minutes. Clean as a pin, San Jose is both Old Spain and Modern America. Some of its well paved streets are broad and lined with beautiful gardens; others are crowded and narrow.
San Jose makes an ideal central point for short excursions through the scenic countryside to two interesting volcanoes, Irazu and Poas. Poas volcano regularly hurls a geyser of scalding water and steam 2,000 feet into the air inside its mile-wide crater. On clear days both the Caribbean and the Pacific are visible from the summit.
Three hours away by Clipper is Panama City, a treasure house of Spanish colonial relics, and the Panama Canal, one of the engineering marvels of the world.
Near Panama City is Old Panama, which was so thoroughly sacked by Henry Morgan, the pirate, in 1671 that the city was moved to its present location.
A short drive from Panama City are the great Miraflores Locks at the Pacific end of the Canal. Crossing the 50-mile wide isthmus to Colon, Panama’s second city, one may see the Gatun Locks at the Atlantic terminus. En route one sees the Government Forest Preserve, with its dense jungle growth vividly typifying the obstacles nature presented when construction was undertaken by the United States in 1903.