Pan AmeR ícak
World Airways Teacher________________________s
CENTRAL AMERICA
By Enrique Portes
Central America is a geographical division of the American continent, comprising several independent little nations with characteristics of their own. In common they have the Spanish language, their Catholic religion, their historical background. On either side are the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean ; Mexico is on the north, and South America at the other end. Their names are familiar to the American traveler : Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama. British Honduras, a British colony, west and south of Guatemala, is part of this geographical division of our hemisphere. For a long time, efforts to unite these republics politically were made, and the Central American Federation came into being only to collapse after some years. The relations among themselves, however, are very close and their bonds of friendship grow stronger every day.
Apart from these facts, each and every one of these countries can offer you literally everything you ask for in a foreign vacation—color, scenery, art, music, fine hotels, good food, wonderful things to buy, remote villages you can “discover” for yourself, mountains, jungles, splendid hunting, just about everything—except winter sports.
Guatemala, for instance, slightly larger than the State of Ohio, with three different climates and some of the loveliest mountain scenery in this hemisphere, is a charming place to see. This is a land of Indian villages, great plantations, active volcanoes, fine motor roads, and, for the curious, the ruins of the extraordinary Mayan civilization that dates back more than fifty centuries. Tiny El Salvador, about the size of Maryland, is green and fragrant with coffee plantations, and is landscaped with mountains and volcanoes, lakes and forests. It is subject, not infrequently to earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and what are known as “temporales”—spells of torrential rains that last a while, depending on the state of the universe—the position of the moon, sun, stars, and tides. But there is one sure, dependable thing that does not change—El Salvador’s birth rate, a handsome 38.1 per 1000 (as contrasted with the United States’ 19.6 per 1000). Let the earth tremble and the volcanoes erupt, but the Salvadoran babies arrive in a steady procession. El Salvador is the most densely populated country in Central America.
Honduras, like the other Central American Republics, is a land of rugged mountains, ancient and enigmatic Mayan ruins, picturesque colonial towns, and scores of banana plantations. In size, it is the largest. The name of Nicaragua, the fourth in our list of Central American Republics, calls up various images. To the student of literature it is, above all, the land of Ruben Dario— well-renowned poet whose lyric verse comes readily to the tongues of all Spanish speaking peoples. To others Nicaragua suggests tropical jungle and vast lakes, dominated by a chain of dormant volcanoes. To still others it immediately recalls the proposed inter-oceanic canal. Your visit, however, will
make you think of Nicaragua as the land of the two great lakes. Nicaragua is about the size of New York State.
Costa Rica, of all the Central American Republics, is unique in that it has been relatively peaceful, democratic, and inclined toward orderly government procedures for many years. The climate may be partly responsible for such serenity. Like Colombia, seven tenths of the population lives inland on the great plateau which is 3,868 feet above sea level and where the temperature averages 59 to 77 degrees. The second smallest of the Central American Republics, Costa Rica has an area of around 23,000 square miles, or about that of the State of West Virginia. In 1949 its population was reported at about 860,000. The majority of the people are of European descent, the pure Indian population averaging less than one per cent. Costa Rica is primarily a nation of small farmers, owning relatively small land holdings. Costa Rica has a proportionately large middle class, her upper classes have a high standard of living, and her low-income groups include a conspicuous number of intelligent, self-respecting working men.
Panama’s strategic location at the crossroads of the Western Hemisphere, makes it the connecting link between two great oceans and two important continents. From the early days of the Spanish conquest, when this narrow strip of land was the logical route for supply shipments between the mother country and western South America, down to the present day when the
construction of the Canal and the advent of the airplane brought increased participation in world affairs, Panama has played a consistently important role in international life. Simón Bolívar, the Liberator of northern South America, presaged the significance of this small country when he invited all the young republics of the New World to send delegates to the Congress of Panama, which was held in 1826. At that historic gathering, the first of its kind to be held in the Americas, Bolivar referred to Panama as the hub of the world and the logical site for a world capital, if such should ever be created. Although Panama connects North and South America, the isthmus runs east and west in a double curve, with the Republic of Colombia lying on its eastern border and that of Costa Rica on its western. To the north is the Caribbean Sea, and to the south, the Pacific Ocean. Its population is over 700,000 and its size about that of Maryland.
British Honduras is, of course, part of Central America. It is a British colony, having north and west Yucatan; west and south Guatemala, and east the Bay of Honduras. Its area is about 7,562 square miles. The coast is generally low and swampy, but the land rises towards the interior, and in some parts is mountainous. The mountains and the wide valleys between them are covered with forests of fine timber, including pines, mahogany, etc. Banana, sugar-cane, coffee, etc. are cultivated. Since 1884 the government has been administered as a crown colony under the presidence of a governor. The capital is Belize. British
ANTIGUA, GUATEMALA—The patio within the old ruins of the monastery of La Merced contains one of the most beautiful old fountains in the city. In the background is the dome of the church of La Merced