Pan American
«	Airways Teacher
ANTIGUA, GUATEMALA—Mt. Agua viewed through archway of Santa Catarina.
Central America, Economy and Trade
By Lou A. Phillips
Any attempt to understand Central America must depend not only on a knowledge of the land itself, but also on a knowledge of the Indian cultures which are basic to the region’s way of life. In parts of Central America the Indians still form a majority of the inhabitants. Even where Indians have intermarried, mainly with people of Spanish descent, to form a “mestizo” people, many manners and customs of the preconquest Indians still survive only slightly modified on the surface.
For example, the present use of maize as the basic food grains stems from the Indian way of life. Ways of preparing and eating maize, the types of utensils, ceremonies and even religious practices have been handed down from long before the coming of the Spaniards. The types of rural houses, certain aspects of a communal land system, water codes and other common elements of present national life are all part of an Indian inheritance.
The historical background of Panama is different from that of any other Central American State. Until 1903 it was an outlying part of Colombia. That year, during a period in which the United States was unsuccessfully trying to negotiate with Colombia concerning rights for the Panama Canal, the people of the isthmus, supported by the United States, declared their independence. They were immediately recognized, and Panama’s present status as an independent political unit has been under the protection of the United States ever since. In 1922 a treaty was concluded between this country and Colombia under which that
nation was paid $25,000,000 for the loss of the isthmus.
In Central America two ranges, called the Cordillera Mountains, extend the length of the territory, forming many high plateaus which are extremely healthful and fertile. Rivers are short and swift on the Pacific slope, but those flowing into the Caribbean are longer and in general suitable for navigation. There are many good harbors on both coasts. A tropical climate prevails.
Central America is rich in natural resources. The high plateaus provide excellent pasture for herds of livestock. In the mountainous regions are rich deposits of minerals, which have not been worked to any great extent. Coral and sponges are found off both coasts of Panama; and from the Pearl Islands in the Gulf of Panama, mother-of-pearl is obtained.
Coffee is exported from every country of Central America and is the leading export of Guatemala, Nicaragua, Costa Rica and El Salvador. Bananas rank first among the exports of Honduras and Panama. Sugar is an important export of Nicaragua, Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala. Other commodities are coconuts and dyewoods, manganese, gold and silver, nuts, medical woods or products, rubber, rice and indigo. Imports are foods, beverages, cotton fabrics, automobiles, machinery, shoes and many other manufactured articles.
Guatemala, the most northern country in Central America, lies south and east of Mexico. With an area similar to that of the State of Tennessee, its capital, Guatemala City is 12 air hours away from New
York and hours by air from Mexico City.
With rich fertile, well watered soil, a varied climate and extensive forest regions, Guatemala is one of the largest Central American republics and also the most important commercially. Like some of the other Republics, it has been developed largely by outsiders chiefly from the United States with most of the big plantations owned and controlled by Americans. Political life is controlled for the most part by people of European ancestry. A majority of the nation’s inhabitants live in small isolated village communities raising their own subsistence crops of maize and having little interests outside their own villages.
Guatemala lies completely within the tropic zone. In the central and southern plateaus and mountains the temperature is pleasant and healthful, but in the hot, humid lowlands, tropical fevers are common. The most productive agricultural lands lie in the central plateau region, although farming is the chief industry throughout the country. The most important export crop is coffee. Bananas also constitute a large part of the country’s exports. Other leading products are chicle used in making chewing gum, sugar, cereals, tropical fruits, rubber and lumber. Cattle raising is also an important occupation and the hides are valuable articles of export. The nation’s chief trade relations are with the United States and Great Britain.
To the east of Guatemala lie Honduras and El Salvador. With high, cool mountains that slope down to hot lowlands along the coast, Honduras is chiefly a tropical country touching both the Pacific and the Caribbean. Although the United States has large investments in Honduras, the country is not widely developed, despite its rich mineral deposits and fertile land. In the center of the country is a high plateau region from which mountain ridges slope to the lowlands of the eastern coast. Cutting across these mountains is a large fertile plain. The climate in the mountains is pleasantly cool, but in the low coastal region it is hot, damp and un-healthful.
Honduras is chiefly an agricultural country and produces a large variety of crops, principally tropical fruits such as bananas, coconuts and pineapples. The few Americans and Europeans who live in the capital, Tegucigalpa, largely control the resources of the country. More than 20 million bunches of bananas are raised each year and they constitute the greatest article of export. Other important crops are corn, sugar cane, coffee and tobacco. Large herds of cattle graze on the upland regions. The extensive forests of the highlands yield valuable timber, such as mahogany, rosewood and cedar. Rich mineral deposits include silver, gold, copper and other metals. The majority of the population are Indian or mestizo.
El Salvador is the smallest but, a very progressive member of the group of Central American Republics. Bordering on the Pacific, the mountainous little country has an area of only 13,200 square miles. The country is crossed by two mountain ranges which rise from the floor of a high plateau and slope westward down to a coastal plain