2
Pan Am er/can
[Vonlo Airways Teacher
Pah Am ericAH [Torlo Alrways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 19 54, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
TEACHER CONTEST
(Continued from page 1)
Secretary of the National Education Association and Dr. Larson, in this case representing the American Association of School Administrators as its president-elect.
General Doolittle visited the teachers’ banquet room at the beginning of the evening and delivered greetings from the aviation industry and Government services. President Eisenhower, after presenting the Wright, Collier and Brewer trophies, came to the teachers’ section to salute them with his famous smile and extended arms salute and in turn received a tremendous ovation.
At the Weather Bureau of the Washington National Airport the teachers were introduced to much of the meteorological data collected for the use of pilots and shown how this information is disseminated to the pilots
of December 15 at the U. S. Chamber of Commerce Building. Luncheon that day was at the National Press Club, and the feature of that meeting was a premier showing of the film “We Saw it Happen,” a history of aviation produced by United Aircraft Corp., and introduced by United Aircraft Vice President Lauren D. Lyman. The afternoon was devoted to a visit to the Library of Congress, and the evening session consisted of dinner at the Press Club with a discussion by a distinguished panel of aviation experts.
Wednesday morning the group visited the White House and Washington Monument, then went to the National Naval Medical Center at Bethesda, Md. for luncheon, and for an inspection of facilities there. Late afternoon found the group at the National Airport for a tour of inspection and dinner at the Terrace Restaurant.
Thursday morning began with another sightseeing tour, and luncheon was at the Willard Hotel, the afternoon was devoted to a tour of the National Air Museum with Curator Paul Garber giving a running description and explanation of the airplanes and equipment on display—the Wright Brothers plane which made the first powered flight carrying a man, the Spirit of St. Louis, and many others—which the teachers wished they could have caught on a tape recording. A visit to the National Gallery of Art followed, and then the Wright Memorial Dinner.
Thus ended an event in aviation education which could never be duplicated, and the record of which will provide a formidable challenge to the committee which convenes some forty-nine years from now to plan a fitting aviation education „celebration for December 17, 2003.
The teachers visited CAA’s air route traffic control center at Washington National Airport. Here they had explained to them the intricacies of the many facilities used and developed for controlling air traffic
The Wright Dinner was the culmination of a program extending over December 15, 16 and 17 which was packed with new experiences. One teacher remarked that the only possible objection was that there was no time allowed to stop and catch one’s breath. She hastily added that this really
was not an objection—she could catch her breath after she got home.
All members of the group were housed in the New Colonial Hotel on Fifteenth Street—a short walk from the White House and the rest of official Washington. A brief opening session took place on the morning