Pan Amtrìca/v
World Airways Teacher
9
ANTIGUA, GUATEMALA—Main square in Antigua showing the San Jose Cathedral in the background
which has an average width of fifteen miles. There are many volcanic peaks, the highest rising to more than 8,000 feet. One peak, Isalco, has been continuously active for more than one hundred years. The climate along the coast is tropical but in the higher lands of the interior the temperature is mild.
El Salvador has excellent fertile soil, most of which is cultivated. National prosperity depends primarily upon the coffee crop which occupies a major portion of the cultivated land and forms the chief export. Other crops are cotton, sugar cane, rubber and tobacco. The country is rich in minerals having large deposits of gold, silver, copper, lead, iron and mercury. It also has a well developed lumber industry based on the extensive forests that cover the mountain sides. With the exception of some pure Indians and a few white settlers, the people are mestizo. The entire population seems to form one distinct cluster centered around the capital of San Salvador. The country is singular in that it is a land of small properties on which farmer proprietors have achieved a considerable prosperity.
Stretching across the center of Central America to the south of Honduras is the Republic of Nicaragua. The largest of the Central American Republics, it is a mountainous, tropical country with a wealth of natural resources. Within its 50,000 square miles are broad plains, magnificent mountains and turbulent streams. Part of its appeal lies in the fact that many of its buildings and customs have remained unchanged through the centuries.
Two mountain ranges extend through the country from north to south. To the east low mountain spurs separated by valleys slope to the low flat coastal lands. On the western side, the land is low and dotted with several lakes the largest of which are Nicaragua and Managua. Most of the people live in the western part of the country. The largest city is Managua, the capital, with a population mainly composed of native Indians and mestizos. There is no urban manufacturing or any substantial amount of commercial activity.
The country’s agricultural wealth consists of beans, coffee, bananas, cacao beans, cotton, sugar cane, corn, coconuts and rice. Bananas and coffee are the chief crops in point of value. These crops are not the only basic source of wealth as there are large supplies of mahogany and other cabinet woods in the forests and the hills are rich in gold and silver, while on the upland plains there are excellent pastures for cattle. The United States supplies nearly three-fourths of Nicaragua’s imports and takes more than half of its exports
Long before the Panama Canal was built U.S. engineers were planning a canal across Nicaragua to link the Atlantic and Pacific. Under the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty of 1916, the United States holds the perpetual right to' construct a canal over any desired route and to establish necessary naval bases.
Far south in Central America, separated from South America only by Panama is the Republic of Costa Rica. About the size of West Virginia, it is a narrow country traversed by lofty mountains throughout its length. It is a land of widely different climates. Along the seaboard, the air is hot and damp and the vegetation tropical. On
the slopes from 3,000 to 7,000 feet, temperate conditions prevail, while above 7,000 feet it is decidedly cool. The capital of the nation is San Jose. Nearly all settlers in the highlands are pure white. Indian populations center in the Pacific lowlands. Along the Caribbean coast the population is more than half Negro. In the highlands a system of small farms operated by their owners prevails. On the Pacific side are large estates, a landed aristocracy and hired workers. On the Caribbean coast are the plantations of North American fruit companies with field hands from Jamaica.
Agriculture is the leading occupation. Coffee is a very highly regarded export. Other leading crops are cacao, sugar cane, corn, potatoes, rice, tobacco and bananas. Gold and silver are mined extensively. The manufacturing establishments of the country are principally engaged in converting the country’s agricultureal products into finished goods.
The population of Panama is smaller than that of any other independent state of Latin America. The country is only about 480 miles in length and varies in width from 37 to 118 miles. Most of the country is hilly, interspersed with mosquito plagued jungle swamps and about half of the land is uninhabited. Cutting across the Republic is the Panama Canal situated in a Canal Zone leased to the United States.
The dominant focus of Panama’s economic life is the Canal. It brings it a certain amount of independence but at the same time a large measure of dependence on the United States. The peculiar importance of the Canal cities is reflected in the geographic structure of the country, and the existence of large cities without any surrounding and supporting zone of settlement.
It is difficult to distinguish between the
so-called domestic exports of Panama and those items which are brought in from elsewhere and re-exported. Bananas are the most valuable product which originates locally and they are the most important export. Many other exports are at least in part produced in other countries. A considerable amount of trade is involved in the importation of manufactured goods from all over the world for sale to tourists. Foreign trade is carried on mostly with the United States. A considerable part of revenue of the Panamanian government is from taxes and services and sales to people passing through the Canal. The majority of the people are mestizo of Spanish, Indian and Negro descent. There are a number of pure blooded Spaniards, Indians, Negros and Chinese. Panama City, the capital, is on the Pacific Ocean, the other major city Colon is on the Caribbean. Most of the population are engaged in agriculture, bananas being the principal product. Rubber, coffee, coconuts, cacao, beans, tobacco and sugar also are raised. Cattle raising too is important. Pearl, coral, sponges, tortoise shell are valuable resources. Timber products include mahogany and rosewood. Many minerals are known to exist but mining is not developed.
A review of the economies of Central America and Mexico does not unearth anything of a complicated nature. For the most part they can be described simply. Their importance to the United States can be summarized equally as simply. The Republics are a source of raw materials. They are a market for manufactured goods. They are absolutely necessary to the security and well-being of the United States. The first two factors, although outweighed by the third one, all combine to produce the overall picture of our relations with the region.