Pam Amer(cam
«	World Aírways Teacher	May-June, 1949
CUBAN HOME—The thatched roof is typical of home construction in Cuba, as in other tropical and semi-tropical places.
As a curiosity, how about a few of these delicacies? Some of you may some day wander about the avenues of Havana and encounter a restaurant which features a rare dish worth a trial. Let’s suppose it is Cangrejo Moro, or Moro crab, a name, incidentally, not related at all to Morro Castle as a friend of mine thought. Moro means Moorish.
This particular kind of cangrejo with heavy claws lias a toothsome meat. Langostino, or fresh-water prawn, also a giant of its species, is at its best cold with mayonnaise, that rich salad dressing made of the raw yolks of eggs, olive oil, vinegar, and seasoning.
You may have eaten Paella in New York or Los Angeles, but you have to go to Cuba or Spain to taste the real McCoy.
Paella might be called properly a rice dish, but what makes it unusual is the variety of ingredients which enter into the preparation. They include various sorts of sea food, diced pork, chicken, and spicy flavorings steamed together in a casserole. Lechón asado, or roast suckling pig, good in any country, is superb as the Cubans cook it. Of course, I could go on giving you some names such as Patas a la andaluza and Embuchado de la Sierra which may not mean anything to you. My humble advice is that you try these dishes when you are in Cuba . . . you’ll never forget them afterwards.
Havana is one of the best drinking towns, (drinking in the best sense of the word'—-literal not alcoholic sense). Cubans drink refrescos which are made from tropical fruit. You can be lyrical about these refrescos. There are some two dozen varieties, beginning with the cosmopolitan orange, lemon, grape-fruit, and pineapple juices. The Cubans prepare the pineapple in two
ways, from fresh fruit crushed right before your eyes, the pulp is strained. This is called pina colada. The other way is to serve it unstrained and topped with shaved ice. It is called pina sin color.
Popular among the refrescos are the tamarind and the guanábana, or soursop. Tamarind is subacid and especially thirstquenching. The guanábana has an unde-scribable flavor, something like that of a peach kernel mixed with that of a very ripe banana. Whipped with milk, sugar and ice, it attains a characteristic that is unique and it has been given a special name, champola.
You can have many other fruits. The watermelon is diced, placed in the electric mixer with ice, and whirled until it comes out a frosted marvel, the pulp disintegrated. The same is done with musk melon, papaya, níspero, and fruits with soft watery pulps.
Culture in Cuba
Cuba has a long tradition in the cultural field. For more than a century Cuban men and women of letters have achieved a place in literature and science. Gertrudis Gómez de Avellaneda (1814-1873), was one of the chief feminine names in Spanish letters ; José M. Heredia (1803-1839), cousin of the French sonneteer of the same name, was an inspired wandering patriot, a precursor of the romantics, and the author of a poem to Niagara Falls; José Marti (1853-1895) was a poet, essayist and Liberator. In the Twentieth Century the list is impressive and long.
The Constitution of 1940 provides that public primary education shall be compulsory, and when administered by the State, the provinces, or a municipality, shall be free. In 1946 there were about 5400 schools enrolling some 520,000 pupils. Literacy is estimated at about 70 per cent.
The Capital of the Island Republic, as in every Latin American country, is the center around which turns practically every cultural activity. Havana is, therefore, Cuba’s seat of learning.
The University of Havana, founded in 1728, has a cluster of comparatively modern buildings on a hill in the direction of Vedado. It consists of several schools, namely, Philosophy and Letters, Sciences, Engineering, Architecture, Agronomy, Law, Medicine, etc. By 1948 the student body numbered more than 14,000. As in most U.S. universities, Havana University has its own extra-curriculum activities such as extension courses, theatre, federation of students, fraternities—“Iota Eta” and “Pi Sigma” among others—summer courses and the like.
To encourage interest in education there are in Cuba many agencies and organizations which do a magnificent job. All educational activities are sponsored by the government which has its own Secretary of Education. A very interesting feature is the special day dedicated to journalism—“Día del Periodista,” which consists of publishing a book containing the best works of a Cuban journalist. The first volume honoring a Cuban journalist was the one on José de Armas y Cárdenas (Justo de Lara.) The second one contained works by Juan Gualberto Gómez. Successive volumes have been on Manuel Márquez Sterling, Gastón Mora, José M. Chacón y Calvo, etc. Literary contests are also celebrated in Cuba every year and prizes are distributed.
There are many cultural societies in Cuba. One of the oldest is the Sociedad Económicas de Amigos del Pais founded in 1795 to cultivate interest in the economic aspects of Cuban life and to promote popular education and other cultural activities. This society not only founded libraries and schools, but also important publications such as Revista Bimestre Cubana which has appeared since 1910.
A Cuban Poet at Niagara Falls
José M. Heredia was very young when he visited Niagara Falls in 1824, being but 21 years of age. A few days later he wrote his Ode to the Niagara which was anonymously translated into English and published under the sponsorship of William Cullen Bryant. Banished into exile by the Spaniards, Heredia had come to the United States, making his way to Boston, where he eked out a living by teaching Spanish, but he nearly died of homesickness, for he could not get acquainted with those he preferred, and would not mix with others. It was while in Boston that he went to see Niagara Falls.
Heredia’s poetry is a clear reflection of his unfortunate life. He began writing poetry in childhood. His education had been classical, and he adhered to the classical style of the eighteenth century but his poetry tends toward Latin American romanticism. When, a boy still, Heredia tried to help his native island to be a free nation, but the attempt failed. Cuba was not to become independent during his life time. He is the poet of failure, the unhappy prophet of freedom, whose stanzas his compatriots repeated during seventy years to spur themselves to effort and sacrifice.