AN AIR VIEW OF CUBA TODAY
by Enrique Portes
The moment your Pan American Clipper lands in Cuba you are conscious of two things : that you have reached the real exuberant tropics and that the people you meet truly welcome you. At once you realize that you are introduced to a country of gay comradeship, of spontaneous enjoyment, and hit-and-miss living of real vitality.
The dignified reserve, the polished courtesy of the Mexican or Colombian, for instance, can hardly be associated with the character of a Cuban. Essentially democratic, he ever tries to annul all social barriers. Of delightful frankness, he likes his ordinary acts open to his neighbor’s gaze. No wonder Americans have only praise for the Island Republic and its people.
Just as the United States might have been called Columbia, Appalachia, Allegheny or Usona (the initials for United States of North America)—all seriously considered— Cuba could also have been known today by any of the different names given to her by Columbus and his successors. When Columbus discovered the island on October 27, 1492, in hyperbolical terms he wrote, “It is the most beautiful land eyes ever beheld; it so far surpasses all other lands as day transcends the night in beauty and splendor.
... One could live on here forever.”
Called “Juana” in honor of Prince Juan of Spain, Cuba was referred to also^ as “Pearl of the Antilles” because of the unusual flora and fauna and the grandeur of the scenery. In the course of the years, Cuba was called “Alpha and Omega,” “Fernandina” and later the name officially was changed to “Santiago” to pay homage to the patron saint of Spain—St. James which is English for Santiago.
EDUCATIONAL
In January, World Airways Teacher published a survey of international educational travel opportunities, listing tours planned for attendance at summer sessions abroad and for other educational purposes. Additional information which has been received since that time is summarised in this article.
For any who missed the earlier survey and are interested, some copies still are available. Ask for World Airways Teacher, Jamiary-F ebruary 1949.
Air travel abroad for educational purposes in the summer of 1949 received new encouragement last month with announcement of special excursion fares for travel to the Caribbean area and to various destinations in Central America.
The excursion fares this year are effective for round trips via Flying Clipper com-
RANCHO BOYEROS—Havana’s airport is about 30 minutes from the center of the city—or in other words about as convenient as those of most cities in the United States (and better than many). The Flying Clipper is loading cargo.
Later Cuba was called “Ave Maria” and then “Bird’s Tongue” because of the similarity between the contour of the island and that of a bird’s tongue. “Star of West” and “Greater Antilla” were names given in poetry and song-
TRAVEL IN 1949
pleted within sixty days (last year the limit was 21 days) thus affording ample time for attendance at a summer session of six to seven weeks, or for trips whether for educational purposes or for pleasure. Travel may begin on or after May 15 and the arrangement terminates September 30.
Savings range up to $94.60 under regular round trip costs. Excursion No. 1, for example, covers the routing New Orleans— Guatemala and return, and the cost at the excursion rate is $118.80. This is a saving of $52.20 in comparison with the regular round trip fare of $171. Other excursions offer comparable savings.
In Guatemala, the University of San Marcos conducts one of the most popular
(Continued on Page 10)
Because of its geographical position, Cuba has also been “Guardian of the Gate of America”, the “Key to the Gulf of Mexico” and “Sentinel of the Caribbean Sea.” “World’s Sugar Bowl” is a nickname of recent coinage. “Isle of a Hundred Harbors” has been used simply because there are over two hundred pocket-shaped harbors around the shores. The amazing thing is that the original Indian name still prevails. Cuba means Place of Gold.
The Island Republic
Cuba was a Spanish colony until 1898. Today it is a free and independent Republic highly regarded among the nations of the world. It contains about 44,217 square miles, the island being 750 miles in length and varying in width from 25 to 160 miles.
About one-fourth of the surface is mountainous; the remainder is composed of lowlands, terraces and gentle slopes. The most extensive mountainous lands are in the extreme Southeast where the Sierra Maestra rises abruptly from the sea to elevations exceeding 7,000 feet.
The Trinidad Mountains of Central Cuba and the Sierra west of Havana, together (Continued on Page 7)