Pa/v Amerìcaiv
12	Won id Arnmys Teacher	May-w, 1949
CLIPPER AMERICA. The new double-decked Flying Clipper, now operating over both the Atlantic and the Pacific is a 75-pas-senger airplane, with speed over 300 miles per hour. This Clipper has a normal operating altitude of from 15,000 feet to 25,000 feet and will thus operate far above surface storms and rough air. It will maintain a sea level cabin altitude up to 15,000 feet and a cabin altitude of only 5,500 feet at 25,000 feet. Crews are trained to operate the giant new Clippers in the air “university”
described in the accompanying article.

the trainer—but away from the crew—and turns on everything from sunshine to fog, smooth to bumpy flying, with sounds to match—the hum of perfect engines, the sputter and cough as one conks out and the sound of the wind. So realistic is this miraculous trainer that crews who have just fought their “plane” down after a desperate, simulated emergency, step out of the machine, pale, shaken and wet with perspiration.
One time, when CAB officials were watching a demonstration of the trainer, its elevator tab failed through an actual and not planned fault. The crew members aboard, provided with a situation that could have never happened in any other type of trainer, went ahead and “landed” the Simulator—and gained invaluable experience.
Mechanics will also be given some training in the Simulator so they will be experienced before they give their first Stratocruiser ground run-up.
Next to the flight group, the mechanics receive more ground training than any other class of personnel at Pan American. Like
the flight crews, they must be trained for each new type of aircraft to which they are assigned and like the pilots, they have a system of supervised self-study by which they progress to higher ratings and salaries.
They are also given refresher courses in different parts of the plane—which are apt to provide a rash of maintenance troubles every now and then—such as the aircraft energizer or berth equipment-
So maintenance classes are going on continually—not in Flushing but in classrooms above the hangars where the mechanics can be gathered together quickly during any lull in their regular work. Maintenance instructors even fly abroad to teach the mechanics bases on the line stations.
Now that the'Stratocruisers are being put in service, maintenance training has reached its highest peak to date. Radically different from previous airliners, the Stratocruiser is an electronic plane filled with wonderful but complicated automatic gadgetry. The best qualified Clipper mechanics will be assigned to it but even they will be advancing to an aircraft demanding new electrical skills.
So advanced and modern is this Stratocruiser that 100 electrical changes are still being made in it every week; one wiring system has been changed 39 times, and instructions for repairing parts have become obsolete and had to be re-written before the first plane was even put in service.
Therefore a tremendous job of training must be carried on in preparation for the Stratocruisers. At a cost of $425,000, 13 instructors have each had ten weeks of training in the Boeing and 600 mechanics will undertake a month-long course. Fifty-thousand dollars worth of various parts of the plane, such as the flight engineer’s panel and the air conditioning unit, have been installed in the classrooms for the mechanics to tinker upon.
Although a training course is being set up at the present time for all sales personnel, an experimental class in methods of supervision, sales and service was given to traffic people and executives last year. Its success was clearly indicated by the action of one $4,000-a-year man : Immediately upon finishing the course, he talked himself into a job paying $8,500 a year.