May-June, 1949
THAILAND
by Lou Phillips
Pan Amerîcan
World Airways Tfachrr
GRAND PALACE—The splendor of the Grand Palace Enclosure is revealed by these spires and gabled roofs. The hornlike points represent the tails of serpents.
Only two decades ago in referring to relations between the United States and Thailand this Government’s Commercial Traveler’s Guide To The Far East stated that:
“Bangkok is on the weekly Dutch air mail service between Java and Amsterdam and the bi-weekly French air mail service between Saigon and Marseille. Letters sent from Bangkok by these lines will arrive in the United States in about 17 days if proper connections are made.”
This procedure required more than a month for an interchange of two letters and it was small wonder that most Americans regarded the 200,148 square mile country on the southeast Asiatic peninsula (then known as Siam) as one of the remotest places on earth. Today mail from the United States arrives in Bangkok via Pan American’s Clippers the third day after being posted.
Development of such direct transportation and communication lines is indicative of the increased economic and political intercourse which has developed between the United States and Thailand—a relationship which is even of more importance to America than its monetary value alone indicates. The attitude of the United States toward Thailand is under constant scrutiny by all the peoples of the Far East and is considered by many of them proof of the sincerity of our professed principles concerning the lands of Asia..
Thailand is unique in many ways. It is the only small country in the Far East that has managed to maintain its independence during the past century. It has been the only Eastern country able to absorb a considerable amount of the material civilization of the West without experiencing social upheavals. It is the only country on the Asiatic continent where visas are not required for visitors with United States passports.
Basis For A Stable Economy
The country is divided into four sections. In the west and north a chain of mountains forms a natural boundary between Thailand and Burma. This area is the source of the nation’s timber wealth. The eastern section bordering on French Indo-China is made up of the Korat Plateau which is largely undeveloped although it is believed to be rich in potential resources. The central region, one vast plateau, is the principal rice growing area. It houses the bulk of the population. These three areas form a compact region known as Upper Thailand. The fourth region, known as Lower Thailand is comprised of a long narrow arm which extends southward in the Malay Peninsula to the Straits Settlement. This region is mountainous with intermittent plains and is the center of the tin industry.
Thailand is especially fortunate in that its economy is basically solvent. Rice, the greatest agricultural product, is produced in sufficient quantities to feed the entire population. It constitutes two-thirds of the nation’s exports and revenue from the sale
of the grain abroad could support the Government alone. Surplus quantities are exported, mainly to British Malaya. Nearly 90% of the area under cultivation is devoted to rice fields. Fresh and salt water fish are numerous and form the second most important item oi the population’s diet.
No part of the East is more celebrated for the abundance and quality of its fruits. The mango', mangosteen, litchi, durian, pomegranate, guava, pineapple and all the other fruits of southeast Asia, the Indian Islands and tropical American areas are abundant and of exquisite quality. Cocoa and areca palms are numerous and cocoa oil is extensively exported. Tobacco, maize, cotton, peas, sugar cane and pepper are also important products and ' rubber production is a growing industry.
Tin, the second most important export is the only mineral worked to any extent at present. Although many other minerals, are known to occur in the land such as antimony, coal, copper, gold, lead, molybdenum, silver, tin, tungsten and zinc, no deposits have been found which would justify large scale development. Precious and semiprecious stones, especially rubies and sapphires are commercially important however.
Thailand is rich in timber. Excellent teak trees abound in the forests of Upper Thailand and are much in demand for the construction of junks and temples. There is also a large export demand for teak as timber for ship building. Oak and pine trees flourish and the country also furnishes rosewood, ebony and many other tropical woods. Stick-lac, gums, oils and resins are also obtainable in commercial quantities.
Manufacturing is limited! to> rice and teak mills, sawmills, tanneries and small factories for the manufacture of cement, soap, tile, furniture and bricks.
Muang-Thai—Land of the Free
Thailand’s recorded history dates from the founding of the ancient city of Ayuthia in 1350 which eventually became the first capital of the Kingdom. During the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries Siam was frequently invaded by neighbors attracted probably by the great wealth of Ayuthia. The nation’s power was extended southward into the Malay Peninsula and eastward into1 Cambodia (French Indo-China). In 1612 an English ship ascended the Menam River sixty miles as far as Ayuthia and eight years later the first Portuguese missionaries arrived.
In 1759 however, the Burmese finally captured Ayuthia and then occupied the entire country. They introduced a Burmese King who' reigned for about a dozen years. At the end of that period a Chinese leader of a band of freebooters seized Bangkok and to the joy of the people expelled the Burmese. He proclaimed himself King and proceeded to extend Siamese power further southward and eastward. But in 1782 he was assassinated by one of his generals who established the present dynasty.
In 1820 intercourse with the West was encouraged and a trade treaty was signed with Great Britain in 1826. A similar treaty was signed with the United States seven year later. From this time forward Thailand’s independence has been guaranteed by the two> European powers having a territorial interest in the Indo-Chinese peninsula —England and France. This has given the nation an opportunity to concentrate its activities on improving general domestic conditions and expanding foreign trade. On July 22, 1917 Thailand declared war on the Central Powers and sent an ambulance detachment to the Western Front late in 1918. As an Associated Power it had dele-