May-June, 1949
As might be expected, Heredia is the most lyrical among the Latin American poets of those days. He is the first who sings of absence and exile, of hopes unfulfilled and lost treasures. The love of his Cuba is a constant passion. The mere caress of a warm breeze from his native climate is enough to evoke a cry. His ode on Niagara portrays the falls with quick strokes, interspersed with emotional remembrances.
The most striking moment comes when, impelled by his nostalgia to evoke the palms of the tropics, he collects himself, thinking they would be out of place by the side of the great falls, whose only fit crown is the wild pines. “Ni otra corona que el agreste pino—a tu terrible majestad conviene” (No other crown than the savage pine is fit for thy fearful majesty).
Once in Mexico, where he established residence after leaving the United States, Heredia was admitted to the Bar, became District Attorney, Foreign Minister, and Deputy to the Court of Spain. While in Spain he obtained pardon from the Crown and hastened back to Cuba, but very soon the authorities sent him into exile again. He returned to Mexico, but shortly after died with a broken heart, in poverty. He was buried in Toluca, Mexico.
Let us quote a few lines of Heredia’s celebrated poem.
Ode to the Niagara Tremendous torrent! for an instant hush The terror of thy voice, and cast aside Those wide-involving shadows, that my eyes May see the fearful beauty of thy face!
Thou flowest on in quiet, till the waves Grow broken midst the rocks; thy current then
Shoots onward like the irresistible course Of Destiny. Ah, terrible, thy rage,
The hoarse and rapid whirlpools there.
My brain
Grows dim, my senses wander, as I gaze Upon the hurrying waters, and my sight Vainly would follow as toward the verge Sweeps the wild torrent. Waves innumerable
Urge on and overtake the waves before, And disappear in thunder and in foam. They reach, they leap the barrier—the abyss Swallows insatiable the sinking waves,
A thousand rainbows arch them, and the woods
Are deafened with the roar. The violent shock
Shatters to vapor the descending sheets.
A cloudy whirlwind fills the gulf, and heaves The mighty pyramid of circling mist To heaven. The solitary hunter near Pauses with terror in the forest shade.
God of all truth! .... To my ear The eternal thunder of the cataract brings Thy voice, and I am humble as I hear.
Cuba—“World’s Sugar Bowl”
Cuba is the greatest contributor to the worlds supply of sweets. Cuban sugar made its first bid for world fame hardly twenty years after the discovery of the island by Columbus. Diego Velasquez, sent by the Crown in 1511 to subdue the Siboneys and to govern their island, tried whether the newly discovered land would produce the luxury sweet. The result made news.
Sugar in those days, was prized chiefly as a medicine, though a taste for it was
Pan American
World ArRmrs Teacher
spreading among the rich who could pay for it. The Spanish word “azúcar” was a survival of the ancient Persian “shakar”— meaning small grains. Famous Arabian doctors had used it in their compounds. The Crusaders had formed a liking for it in the Holy Land and had done a lot to promote its use in Central Europe. The sixteenth century saw Spaniards and Portuguese extending cultivation of sugar into the New World.
Today about one-half of all persons gainfully employed in Cuba are engaged in agriculture, and 70 per cent of them work in the sugar industry. Of the 4 million acres under cultivation in 1940, 57 per cent were devoted to sugar cane. The production of sugar averaged more than 3 million short tons annually in pre-war years. In 1947 it was 6,448,320 short tons, most of which was sold to- the United States.
Although only 2.7 per cent of the land under cultivation is devoted to the raising of tobacco, this crop is the second most important export item. About 60 per cent is sold abroad. In 1946-47 Cuba produced 65 million pounds of tobacco.
Fruits and vegetables are grown for domestic and export markets. Corn, beans, rice, cacao, pineapple, oranges, grapefruit are increasing in production. Cuba now supplies 15 per cent of its annual consumption of rice, instead of the 5 per cent which prevailed in the pre-war period.
Cuba produces a wide range of manufactured products for local consumption, including textiles, rope and cordage, paints, shoes, cement and agricultural tools and implements. We must include, of course, molasses, syrup, rum, brandy, alcohol, cigars, cigarettes, cigar boxes and sponges.
Cuba has bitumen (mineral pitch) of exceptional purity and quality. In is believed that the island’s asphalt beds will one day give it high place among the world’s producers. In the province of Oriente are deposits of iron, copper, manganese, mercury, gold, zinc, lead, silver and antimony, all awaiting further exploration and development.
Aviation in Cuba
Cuba has become air-minded like every Latin American nation. There are seven Cuban organizations reported as giving flight training. They are the Halcón Aviation School, the Aeromarina, S.A., the Inter-American Aviation School, the Empresas Aeronáuticas de Cuba, the Calmar Commercial Company, the Corporación Aeronáutica Cuba, S.A., and the Aerolíneas Cubanas, S.A. Only in a country where the people are really interested in aviation could one find so* many aviation schools. Pilots graduated from these centers must pass an examination by the Transportation Commission in order to become eligible for the Cuban Government pilot’s license.
Cuba is served by many international companies in addition to her own organizations. Among the latter we could count the following: Aerovías “Q”, S.A. (Havana). A year ago this company had in service six C-47’s and was flying from Havana to Key West, Nueva Gerona (Isle of Pines), Camaguey, Varadero, and Havana-Port au Prince (Haiti).
Another is COMPAÑIA CUBANA DE AVIACION, S.A. (CUBANA), affiliated with Pan American Airways. This company has a long history of safe operation and holds a 12-year certificate of award from the Inter-American Safety Council,
PRADO—From a high point near the Parque Central, the observer may see this view of El Prado. This wide and beautiful street begins at the Malecon across from the fortress of La Punta and runs south several blocks to Parque Central.