Pan American
«	World Airways Teacher	May-june, 1949
PAA-LOAD EVENT FOR GAS MODELS
houses lining the one hundred and sixty-five foot wide Rajdamern Avenue in the suburbs of Bangkok seem like an architect’s dream.
Nowhere in the Far East can one find more picturesque markets than Bangkok’s floating food shops. Sampan fleets of country farmers crowd the canals of the city bringing a variety of foods to urban dwellers. Yellow robed Buddhist monks may be seen everywhere. During the dry seasons they tour interior regions camping in white linen umbrella tents and preaching to village congregations.
There are tigers, leopards, bears, the celebrated cats with light chocolate colored hair and blue eyes, apes and single-horn rhinoceros. The principal boast of Thailand however is the high perfection of its elephants which attain a size and beauty elsewhere unknown. Ordinary elephants are employed in heavy labor but the light ashy-gray beast—the white elephant—is considered a sacred animal and is worshipped as such by all classes of the people. Crocodiles, tortoises and green turtles are also numerous and turtles and their eggs are in great demand among the Thai people as an article of food.
Americans are really welcome in Thailand. Many of those residing there in business and government first became acquainted with the Thai people during the war by working with the underground. Around this nucleus of ex-OWI and OSS soldiers are the business men who see in Thailand one of the stablest points at which to base their Far Eastern trade enterprises. The main object of the Thai people is to live their own lives free of all domination both from the East and the West. Ever since the days of the first sailing clipper ship sea voyages to the Far East, Americans have respected this will to work out one’s own destiny.
Special events requiring model airplanes to fly with pay loads comparable to those carried by their full scale civil and military counterparts will be featured for the first time this year at seventeen contests throughout the United States as well as at the National Model Airplane Meet at the U.S. Naval Air Station at Olathe, Kansas.
The payload event was introduced at the nationals at Olathe last year by Pan American Airways. Pan American now plans to sponsor the event at meets in the following cities:
Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Detroit, Flouston, Los Angeles, Miami, Minneapolis, New Orleans, New York City, Philadelphia, Portland, San Francisco, St. Louis, San Diego, Seattle and Washington.
A.M.A. to Supervise
The PAA-Load Events, for free flight gas models, will be run off under the supervision of the Academy of Model Aeronautics, with cash prizes for the winners ranging from $10 to $125.
A contestant under 21 may enter in the Junior-Senior Division, and the “Open” section will accept entrants above 21. In both divisions the contestant may fly the Class A type of model, or the larger Class B type. (Or he may prepare entries for both classes.) The smaller Class A model is required to carry an “occupant” consisting of a block of wood or other material weighing at least eight ounces and otherwise conforming to the contest specifications. The larger Class B model is required to carry two such “occupants.”
Model experts regard this requirement as adding a new and interesting challenge to
the model builder, as it requires him to accommodate the “occupants” within his model, provide a tiny window for “visibility” for them and adjust the balance of the model with its payload so- as to achieve efficient flight. The longest flight (in point of time aloft) wins the first prize, and the second and third best flights also win cash prizes.
The experts also point out that the pay load requirement adds a new and valuable educational feature to model flying, since it poses to the model designer one of the same problems that is faced by the designer of a full scale model—namely to carry useful load in the airplane and still achieve the best possible performance. In the case of the full scale designer the problem is to get the maximum amount of pay load with the maximum efficiency of performance. In pay load flying with models however, the problem has been simplified somewhat in that all contestants start with the same amount of pay load and strive for the best performance.
Pay Load is Basic
Pay load is the life blood of commercial aviation, since it is passengers, mail and cargo which produce revenue. Pay load also is basic to military flying and private flying, although not in terms of revenue, because the military plane to be useful must carry its crew and its load of weapons and ammunition, and the private airplane similarly must carry its pilot and passengers, their luggage and other inanimate objects in order to serve a. useful purpose.
Thus requiring the model airplane to carry a pay load, even in the simulated form of a block of wood, introduces the model builder to the very problem that is basic to full scale airplane designing.
Prizes are cash for furtherance of the winners’ educations. Every contestant who qualifies an entry will receive a certificate suitable for framing. The schedule of cash
prizes for the 1949 National Meeting al Olathe follows: Comb. Jr.-Sr. Open		
Class A, 1st	$100.00	$100.00
2nd	85.00	85.00
3rd	65.00	65.00
Class B, 1st	125.00	125.00
2nd	100.00	100.00
3rd	75.00	75.00
For each other 1949 contest LOAD Event is Featured)		(where PAA-
Class A, 1st	$ 20.00	$ 20.00
2nd	15.00	15.00
3rd	10.00	10.00
Class B, 1st	25.00	25.00
2nd	20.00	20.00
3rd	15.00	15.00
Grand Total 18 Contests,
216 prizes — $4,670.00
Prospective contestants may receive detailed information by writing to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, New York.