10
Pa/v Ameríca/v
World Airways Teacher
May-June, 1949
Inc. “for having flown 67,998,666 passenger miles without a single fatal accident to passengers or crew.” CUBANA operates three round trips each day between Havana and Miami. All other scheduled flights are within Cuba, daily, to every part of the island.
Another is EXPRESO AEREO INTER-AMERICANO, S.A. (EXPRESO). As of March, 1948, EXPRESO operated scheduled routes Havana-Miami and Havana-Isle of Pines. At present they must be serving other parts of the island as well. AEROVIAS CUBANAS INTERNACIONALES (CUINAIR) inaugurated a trans-Atlantic service between Havana and Madrid in November, 1946. In August, 1947 daily flights were run from Havana to Nassau. According to a report, non-sched-uled routes—January, 1948—included the following Havana-Nassau, Havana-Bermu-da-Azores-Lisbon-Madrid, etc. This service, as far as we know, has been temporarily suspended.
Cuba has fine airports with good facilities. One in Camaguey called Agramontc Airport, and in Havana Rancho Boyeros Airport. Cuba’s Air Force has some 50 combat planes. Two air bases built by USA during the last war were turned over to the Cuban Government in 1946.
Cuba Welcomes You
You may know more about Cuba than you possibly imagine. You may have heard the rhumba., the conga and the maracas, and yet there is something more behind these words. The rhumba, for instance, originally was a marriage dance, and many of the steps which may seem lewd actually only represent common farm tasks, such as climbing a rope or shoeing a mare.
And the conga? In Cuba it is very different from what you see in the States, The conga comes from slave times and is named after the big conga drum, like a huge tomtom. Legend says that shackled slaves danced to drums, advancing for three steps, then dropping their ankle-chains with a clang, which gave the accented fourth beat.
But Cuba is not just one thing. It is not only a little radio station which gives the current time every single minute, filling the air in between with commercial announcements. It is not just the Varadero, that splendid sweep of gently shelving beach along the peninsula that encloses the Bahia de Cárdenas. Cuba is not only the guaguas or little buses which dash across the streets in a frantic fashion.
Cuba is to be found in its history and its people. Cuba is symbolized in Plácido, the poet and martyr, and one of the first to speak out boldly for Free Cuba; in Antonio Alaceo, Máximo Gómez and José Marti who gave their lives for their country’s liberty. Cuba is to be found also in her journalists and artists who openly express and mold the mind and the spirit of the people; in her women who are not just concerned with food and entertainment but are responsible for much of the breath of freedom that blows throughout the land.
Cuba is a vital country, a progressive and friendly people who will always welcome you with a smile. And you can visit Cuba and know her people so easily, so quickly and, above all, so inexpensively.
EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
(Continued from Page 1)
summer sessions in Latin America. Other summer sessions in the areas covered by the summer excursion rates include University of Costa Rica in San Jose, Costa Rica; University of Santo Domingo at Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic; and University of Puerto Rico, at San Juan, Puerto Rico (see below).
For travel to Havana for the summer session at University of Havana, and for travel to Mexico City, where there are summer sessions at the National University and at other schools, the regular round trip discount of 10 per cent is available. The same is true for travel to South America, and on the Atlantic and Pacific services.
On both the Atlantic and Pacific, travel via the new double deck Flying Clippers of the Clipper America type will be available this summer.
Specific information on educational opportunities for the summer of 1949 which has been received since the January-February issue of World Airways Teacher follows:
Bolivia From La Paz, Bolivia comes announcement of a summer session for North American students and teachers at San Andres University.
Courses in Spanish, Latin American literature, Bolivian Archeology, Latin American History, Bolivian Art and Folklore, Social Aspects of Bolivia and Economics of Bolivia are available. Supplementing the formal college courses, there will be a series of evening lectures by outstanding Bolivians.
These courses will be given in Spanish.
The bulletin announcing the San Andres summer session says that requests for registration should be sent air mail to' Dr. Howard Yoder, Secretary, Comite de Inter-cambio Universitario, Cajon No. 9, La Paz, Bolivia.
Mexico The Department of Modern Languages at the University of XTotre Dame will sponsor the second annual Notre Dame summer session at Mexico City College from June 15 to August 23. Purpose of the session is to provide opportunity to develop fluency in the Spanish language, to broaden education by residence in a foreign land and to improve inter-American understanding. College credit may be obtained.
Although this course is planned primarily for Notre Dame students it is open to others, both men and women, provided they have the requisite background in Spanish studies or a desire to pursue such studies. Write to the Department of Modern Languages, University of Notre Dame, South Bend, Indiana.
Another group for study at the Mexico City College is being organized under sponsorship of the Eastern States Study Group. Courses in Spanish, Latin American culture, Economics, Business Administration, Marketing, Psychology and other subjects may be taken.
For information and admission applications for the Eastern States Study Group
write to Dr. Philip C. Newman, Pennsylvania State College, State College, Penna.
Peru The University of San Marcos in Lima, Peru, conducts summer sessions which attract many students from North America. The dates for 1949 are July 1 to August 12. Courses in Spanish, Latin American Literature, Peruvian Literature, Peruvian Culture, Problems of Contemporary Peru, Sociology and Economics of Peru, Peruvian Geography and Arts and Folklore of Peru are offered.
Two tours by Flying Clipper which include attendance at San Marcos in Lima are being organized.
One is sponsored by the Pan American Council of Chicago and includes arrangements for sightseeing at cities en route-prior to attendance at the summer session. Details are handled for the Council by the T. J. McGuire Travel Company, 333 N. Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois—to whom application may be made for the entire program including admission to San Marcos.
The other is sponsored by International House in New Orleans and the Louisiana State University and inquiries may be directed to either of those institutions or to the Pan American World Airways office at 148 Carondelet Street, New Orleans 12, Louisiana.
Puerto Rico The Summer Institute on The Education of the Spanish-Speaking Child will be in session at the University of Puerto Rico from June 6 to July 23—at Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.
Two course sequences are offered, one of which leads to 6 credit hours at New York University, and the other a corresponding-amount of credit at Teachers College, Columbia University. Other courses for credit are available, also conversational Spanish and conversational English courses without credit.
The announcement by the University of Puerto Rico explains the objectives and procedures of the Institute as follows:
“The University of Puerto Rico Summer Institute on the Education of the Spanishspeaking Child offers teachers, supervisors and community workers a unique opportunity to explore the intercultural and language problems of Spanish-Speaking children. The University, situated as it is on the Spanish-speaking island of Puerto Rico, is a natural laboratory for the study of such problems. The courses offered are designed to meet the needs of interested persons from the republics of Latin-America, the Spanishspeaking areas of the United States, and the island itself.”
For information about the Institute, write to Dean Pedro A. Cebollero, College of Education, University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.
For information regarding all-expense summer sessions tours ($325 for attendance at University of Puerto Rico; $322 for attendance at Polytechnic Institute of Puerto Rico in San German, P.R., including round trip air fare between New York City and San Juan) apply to the Puerto Ria> Industrial Development Co., 4 East 58th St., Room 1301, New York City.