May-June, 1949
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
7
CUBA
(Continued from Page 1)
with the rugged hill country at the western extremity of the island complete the list of upland regions.
The climate, though warm, is always tempered by delightful sea breezes. You can ask any of the 5,130,000 Cubans about the weather—he has no complaint to make.
Certain features of Cuba’s political organization are unique and cannot be found in other countries of this hemisphere. The President is elected for a four year term by direct popular vote, in which women take part.
Though named by the President, the Cabinet is responsible to- the Congress. Cubans call this a semi-parliamentary system because the Congress may give a vote of no-confidence and a Cabinet crisis will result.
Cuba has a 54-member Senate and a 136-member House, both elected for four years. This number gradually is being reduced, however, under provisions which authorize one member of the House for every 35,000 inhabitants or fraction thereof until a total of 114 seats in the House of Representatives is achieved.
Cuban labor legislation derives from the Constitution of 1940 which contains an extensive section on labor providing for minimum wages, social security, an 8-hour day, paid vacations, and collective bargaining.
Havana Smiles
Though Cuba has other important cities such as Santiago with some 130,000 inhabitants, Camaguey with 80,000, and Marianao (Havana’s chief suburb) with 120,000 Havana is the main attraction. Thousands of travelers know the wonder of slipping into Havana’s close-mouthed harbor in the dawn, passing El Morro Castle, merging into La Cabaña Fortress. Many will remember the beauty of Havana seen from the comfortable window of a gigantic Clipper.
“No traveler,” writes Jorge Mañach, distinguished Cuban writer, “can understand the reason for our explosive joy in the lyric moment of sighting El Morro Castle when coming from abroad. ... El Morro and its lighthouse tower are for us,” continues the Cuban, “a symbol of the essential, imminent, immutable Havanity of Havana.”
As you fly over Havana, Morro Castle leaps into view. It stands aloft, garbed in ancient weather-beaten brownstone against the horizon. Its rugged simplicity contrasts with the new white Baroque palaces of the Malecón speedway, curving westward to meet the sea again. Over its embattled ramparts have waved the flags of many nations. Since its construction in 1597, it has stood against English pirates, it has housed the treasures of galleons, and in its day, with the low pink Cabaña Fortress to its rear, was well-nigh impregnable.
Havana is as large a city as San Francisco and as cosmopolitan. The arrival in Havana is always dazzling. By day, there are the pinkish-white plaster of the crowded buildings, the weather-beaten reds and golds of the tiled roofs, the silver-gray of the ancient ramparts, all sparkling in the bril-
SUGAR CANE-------Cuba’s economy is based upon the production of sugar cane, used
for making sugar---also rum. This photo shows the luxuriant way in which it grows.
fiance of a tropical sun- By night, the necklace of fights along the Malecón, the fabulously beautiful sea-front drive, the silhouettes of royal palms against the sky and the bright star-crowned heavens, give the harbor the reality of a painted backdrop.
No, we cannot describe in a few words the beauty that is Havana. Let that wonderful experience be yours. One thing will impress you though—the Havaneros. Their informal friendliness will please you. They talk quickly, interrupt each other, their voices rising in crescendos. They leap aside for traffic without pause in their conversation and dash for streetcars or buses that clang by at fire-engine speed, daring the leaping passenger to' make the step if he can. Havaneros—or Cubans in general for that matter—are not the soft-spoken, slow-moving Latins you may think of. They are quick of speech and step, quick of apprehension, quick to see or make or take a joke, quick to laugh and quick to make a deal.
You will discover that every Havanero, or Cuban, is a clubman at heart, and Havana is the greatest club city in the world. There are clubs for all, from the super Havana Yacht Club to the clerks associations or Centro de Dependientes housed in a million-dollar building on El Prado. Cubans really five in their clubs. In the suburbs most of these associations maintain efficient modern hospitals (quintas) and old folk homes. The Hijas de Galicia even has a beach club for women.
Like New Yorkers who refuse to call Sixth Avenue “Avenida de las Americas”... Havaneros refuse to take up new names too’. The municipality has tried hard to rename streets and plazas without success. Thus, the Prado has long been officially the “Paseo de Marti” and though there is no more venerated figure in Cuban history
than Marti, it remains the Prado in everyday parlance.
Zulueta was changed to “Agramonte,” Neptuno to “Juan Clemente Zenea,” Galiano to “Avenida de Italia,” Monserrate to “Avenida de Bélgica,” O’Reilly to “Presi-dene Zayas,” etc. But try to get anyone to admit the changes.
One thing that will make you smile in the question of names is the way Hcúvaneros— some of them, of course—name their places of business. “La Filosofía,” (Philosophy) for instance, is a general clothing and linen store, as is “El Pensamiento” (Thought). “La Poesía Moderna” (Modern Poetry) is a stationery and book store with not much emphasis on poetry, and “La Purísima Concepción” (The Immaculate Conception) is a grocery and bakery. And soon after you arrive in Havana you know “El Encanto” (Enchantment), one of the great department stores of Cuba.
Of course, there are great hotels, nightclubs and splendid resorts . . . but the description of those items belong somewhere else. Cuba is more than those separate things. Cuba is the sum total of a people in harmonious unity, working and living on their own island.
Gourmet’s Paradise
It has been said that cooking may well be used as a yardstick of a people’s culture. In this respect Cuba stands high. Havana is a great eating town. The cuisine is of Spanish origin, modified and perhaps improved by Creole imagination. In the first place, Cubans love sea food, and their favorite meat is probably pork. The wonders they perform with these items might deserve to be celebrated by a Charles Lamb. Cubans cook chicken, also, in a score of admirable ways.