PA/V AMERrCM
May-June, 1949	World Airways Teacher	\ 1
PAA’S AIR "UNIVERSITY
by Marjorie Lundberg
Aviation is the “growing boy” among the world’s sciences. Less than 50 years after its birth at Kitty Hawk, the industry is progressing so swiftly that its text books become obsolete before they can be printed.
In order to keep up with the torrent of technical developments, the Atlantic Division of Pan American World Airways has opened its own air “university” in New York. Through it, 90 percent of the employees take refresher and advanced courses in their own work—with greenbacks, not sheepskins—awarded to many for passing grades. While the curriculum for the clerical and traffic workers is still very limited, dozens of subjects are given to flight and maintenance crews whose promotions and pay raises depend on their academic progress.
With an operating budget of three-quarters of a million dollars—enough for a small college—the school has conventional classrooms at La Guardia Airport, New York City. Classes are also given in every Clipper in the Atlantic fleet, four workshops and the tremendous Pan American hangars at LaGuardia Field as well as in a $250,000 magical gadget called a B-377 Flight Simulator.
The “university” is divided into two (schools, one for ground training and the other for flight training—and the division is just that exact. A pupil may be studying celestial navigation but if his two feet are on terra firma, he’s in ground school.
A landlubber might argue that this division is not true as long as classes in the B-377 Flight Simulator are not given by the ground school; the “devil box” is securely ensconced in the second floor of PAA’s South Wing at LaGuardia Field. One “flight” in it, however, with the sound of wind rushing by and snow seeming to splinter against the windshield and said landlubber would change his mind.
Ground training is not a new project for Pan American, for prior to 1948, classes were given whenever a department head thought they were needed. Then a year ago, Harry Canaday was named superintendent of ground training and told to consolidate a training unit that would increase the curriculum but unify subjects, equipment and space formerly assigned to several departments thus effecting economies, efficiency and better academic records.
A fifteen-year man with Pan American, Canaday is an Annapolis graduate and a former Navy and Clipper pilot. Leaving the service in 1946 as a commander, he was assigned to Johannesburg as district manager of Africa for a year preceding this last appointment.
“I’ve never taught a class—I’m an organizer, not a professor,” Canaday tells you, looking up from a desk covered with floor plans, blue-prints and schedules.
And much organization is necessary when, with a staff of 20 teachers plus guest lecturers, Canaday must see that more than 1,200 persons concerned with the operation
and repair of the Atlantic Clippers acquire and constantly maintain a high peak of efficiency so that they work with machinelike perfection at all times. Such an excellent job is done, however, that foreign airlines frequently ask Pan American to train their people for them.
Flight crews, who never finish their schooling as long as they continue a career in the clouds, are given the lion’s share of the classes. In addition to the training they receive when they’re hired, they are given familiarization classes whenever they are assigned to a new type of aircraft plus refresher periods every six months and a series of courses designed to increase their proficiency over a number of years.
Clipper pilots, for example, who are experienced flyers before they’re hired, are given an intensive, six-weeks course of training before they are even assigned to their first PAA flight. The course includes dozens of subjects and the classes in the ground school resemble those at any men’s college with perhaps a degree more of seriousness added. Clad in sport shirts and slacks, the men wade through one involved lecture after another making voluminous notes on the way as a weapon against frequent quizzing. Grades are an ever present bugaboo as they are in any school, but only one or two- failures are recorded in a year •—and they are immediately followed by a review of the course.
It isn’t momma and poppa, however, who are interested in the report cards of the pilots but the stern gentlemen of the Civil Aeronautics Board. When an accident occurs, they immediately look up the training record of the crew involved. If no refresher courses had been taken by the crew within the last six months, for example, or if a member had failed to grasp knowledge essential for the performance of his duties at the time of the accident, the company would be judged delinquent.
Although the pilots face the most strenuous training program, all other flight personnel are given similar plans of study designed to fit their jobs and the requirements of the CAA. Pilots, pilot-navigators, flight radio officers and flight engineers take many of the same courses—which range in time from four hours to five weeks, and whenever the crew scheduling office reports that there is a group large enough to merit a class, say in loran or navigation, the ground school gives one.
The stewards and stewardesses, however, have a course which differs greatly- After one month in the ground school, those young ladies and gentlemen are adept at an assortment of accomplishments including bartending and baby sitting. And their skill is not only confined to the domestic arts; they can discuss meteorology, aerodynamics and navigation with the passengers as well as they can scramble eggs for 40 people in the minute galley.
To learn all of this in four weeks takes some hustling—and a lot of homework. The
99
classes are small—often under ten—and they’re in session from 9 :00 A.M. to 5 :00 P.M. with recesses devoted to uniform fittings, inoculations and passport paraphernalia. To miss a day of class is to miss a course, and that’s fatal when the passing grade on the five tests given is 90.
Stewardesses to captains, however, take the same course in emergency procedure and equipment. The man who originated and supervises the course—and does such a thorough job of it that the New York Port Authority has asked Pan American to train their airport crash crews for them—is Pierre de Remer, veteran pilot and survivor, himself, of a few emergencies such as the Battle of Dunkirk where he was an ambulance driver evacuating the wounded.
Duplicating critical conditions as much as possible, de Remer teaches the crews to handle three situations; Emergency landings on land and water, fire aloft and the necessity for administering oxygen. When pilots are practicing emergency landings in the Clipper, de Remer bundles his brood aboard, opens all the exits per official procedure and with the wind howling down the aisle, shows his students how to brace themselves for a rough descent.
In the summer, he often sets sail with a class for Port Washington for “ditching” practice. During the day-long sessions, the crew members throw rubber rafts into Long Island Sound, swim over to them and start locating the 29 life-saving items tucked aboard. When New York’s winter weather forbids such realism, de Remer “launches” the rafts in a room of the ground school.
Until a month ago, the flight school was limited to pilots alone. Through it, they polished up their technique of blind flying with sessions in the Link trainers, and they practiced boost-off and two engine landings out at MacArthur Field in the aircraft to which they were assigned- But since the acquisition by Pan American of the one and only B-377 Flight Simulator, the head of the flight school, Capt. James O’Neal, has opened his precinct to some mechanics and all flight personnel—except stewards and stewardesses.
The Simulator duplicates the flight deck of the Boeing Stratocruiser—the newest and largest air liner and a recent addition to the Clipper fleet—and it does everything but fly. In fact, when it’s in use, it’s hard to believe it isn’t flying. Although the machine is fastened to the floor, every normal and emergency condition experienced in actual flight can be duplicated thus providing a complete dress rehearsal for crew members at a comparatively low cost to the company.
Despite the initial cost of the Simulator, the machine will save Pan American money as long as the Stratocruisers are being used. Practice time on the airplanes is the most expensive item in training and an hour on the Stratocruisers will cost about $550. An hour in the Simulator will cost about $50.00.
An electronic-flight instructor sits inside