Pan American
World Airways Teacher	May-June, 1949
DON MUANG AIRPORT-----------Bangkok’s modern airport is one of the aerial gateways to
Asia. The Flying Clipper Red Rover is being serviced. Like all the Flying Clippers now, this one is named for a historical sailing clipper.
gates at the Peace Conference in 1919 and became a member of the League of Nations.
The nation’s pre-war position as the only sovereign state of southeast Asia was responsible for the unique status it held during Japan’s expansion into Asia. When the land was finally occupied by the Japanese, interference with the local administration and exploitation of its resources were far less drastic than in neighboring areas. The Japanese Government used Thailand as an example of how “well” it would treat other Asiatic lands once they become members of its proposed co-prosperity sphere. Despite the fact that technically Thailand was at war with the Allies from 1941 to 1946 and despite the food and equipment it was forced to furnish Japan, an effective underground thrived in the nation. Thailand became an important listening post and a source of information concerning Japanese strategy for the Allies.
This secret cooperation was the basis for United States support of much less vindictive demands against the Thai people after the war than were voiced by the British Government. Eventually a peace agreement was signed however between Britain, India and Siam bringing to an end the state of war which existed between the three countries. The treaty provided for the return to Britain of four Malay and two Shan States ceded to Thailand by the Japanese in 1945. Britain and India also undertook to support Thailand’s candidacy for membership in the United Nations. To date the country has participated in the United Nations conferences on food problems, is a member of the Rice Committee of the Combined Food Board and is also a member of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
Until 1932 Thailand was an absolute monarchy. At that time a coup d’etat
started by a handful of middle class civilians and officers transformed the nation nominally into a democratic constitutional regime. Under the constitution supreme power belongs to the nation. The King, who is the head of the country, exercises legislative power by and with the advice and consent of an Assembly of the People’s Representatives, and executive power through a State Council which is composed of fourteen to twenty-four members. Men and women over twenty years of age enjoy the right to vote.
Economic Freedom
Until the Second World War, although Thailand’s political independence had been preserved, as far as the country’s economic relations with the outside world were concerned it was under British influence. Great Britain had important tin and teak concessions. Tin was sent to Singapore, refined in British smelters and then sold to the United States in the form of ingots. Teak wood from the north was floated by river to Bangkok during the rainy months of the year and exported mostly in converted form. Rubber production which is growing in the southern and eastern sections of the country was shipped to Penang in British Malaya and then re-exported to the United States.
Payment was received in British pounds while the English collected American dollars for the resale of the merchandise. Substantial British brokerage, insurance and commission fees were also added to the selling price. As long as the pound sterling could buy what the Thai people wanted from the outside world this arrangement continued to be satisfactory. But with the economic decline of Great Britain this situation no longer existed and the Siamese began to move into the dollar orbit. This
move was merely a common sense measure as dollars became the media by which they could buy more of what they wanted. Thailand depends on imports for most of its manufactured and consumer goods. Principal exports from the United States include petroleum products, electrical and industrial machinery, iron and steel products, dairy products and agricultural implements.
Growing American Influence
In 1947 the first tin ore was sent from Thailand directly to war born smelters ol Texas City in American boats and a definite trend has become evident for the United States to purchase more rubber and tin ore directly, paying in dollars. American influence in Bangkok is also growing in other ways. United States firms have increased from two in pre-war days to several dozens. The Bangkok Post, edited and published by an American is growing in influence with each passing month. Every Clipper touching the runway at Bangkok brings a new type of pioneer to Thailand—American mining engineers who will prowl south Thailand for new deposits of tin—lumbermen who will brush herds of pigmy elephants out of their way in the search for timber tracks available for lease in the north—business men beginning to regard Thailand as a likely prospect for future investment and development. Pan American World Airways has chosen Bangkok as the base for its southeast Asia operations and is the principal user of Bangkok’s Don Muang Airport.
Aviation
The development of international aviation made heretofore isolated Thailand, the aerial gateway to the Far East. Local aviation was first inaugurated in 1922 by the Army but since 1930 it has been developed by private companies. Thai air routes cover the kingdom and join it to near-by points in India, Hong-Kong, French Indo-China and Malaya. Civil Aviation is administered by the Civil Aviation Board which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Communications. Air navigation laws and regulations are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense. Planes of Pan American World Airways, KLM, Royal Dutch Airlines, Air France, British Overseas Airways, Pacific Overseas Airways, Cathay Pacific, Philippine Airlines and Trans Asiatic Airlines now call regularly at Bangkok.
Before the war Thailand had only about 2,000 miles of railways, all terminating in Bangkok. Most of the nation’s commerce is carried on rivers. Practically all towns and rural divisions are accessible from the capital by means of three principal river systems and a network of canals. Not only do the rivers afford a means of interior transportation, particularly for rice and teak, but their rising waters flood adjoining lands irrigating the all important rice fields. Very little commercial travel can be done on Thai highways. There are only about 3,500 miles of roadway in the land. Road construction is making progress however and under the plans of the Government they will eventually serve all populous sections not reached by rail.