
Pan AtrERrc/uv
May-June, 1949	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER 5
KLONGS—ICIong means canal. The city of Bangkok is crisscrossed with them, and they were the thoroughfares before a system of streets and roads was developed. They still carry much of the city’s traffic.
Bangkok—Heart of Thailand
1
< The chief business center of the nation is Bangkok which is also the capital and chief port. 85% of the country’s direct foreign trade is handled at its docks, railroad termini and airport. Most of the smaller towns look to Bangkok as the source of their supply. The city has a population of about
700.000	people and is clean and modern with many parks. It is 994 miles from Singapore and 1,553 miles from Hong Kong. In addition to direct access by air it may be reached from Penang in British Malaya by rail, from Singapore by rail or steamer, from Hong Kong by steamer and from Saigon in French Indo-China by overland routes during certain times of the year or by infrequent steamer service. The Siam Navigation Company runs two coastwise lines from Bangkok. In addition to the many foreign vessels which enter the port each year, regular service is maintained between the capital, Hong Kong and other southern Chinese ports.
Thailand has very few towns with a population of over 10,000 the majority of the people being scattered in townships and villages. It is even difficult to estimate the populations of Thai towns as the census usually includes surrounding vicinities as well. The capitals of the provinces are often only a few houses gathered around a market place, and the offices and residence of the Governor. The principal city in northern Siam is Chiengmai, 466 miles from Bangkok. It is the governmental headquarters for the northwest provinces and the terminus of the northern railway line. It has a cool bracing climate during the winter months. The city is the headquarters for some of the large teak companies and also an entrepot for overland trade with Burma. Not far from Chiengmai and connected by highway with it as well as with Bangkok is Lampang which is probably a greater business center than Chiengmai. Other towns of importance are Haad Yai, center of tin, rubber and coconut producing regions; Puket, center of tin deposits; and Korat the principal city in northeast Thailand and a center of silk weaving and livestock trading.
The Thai People
Of the 11,500,000 people all but one million are said to be Siamese. Of the remainder about half are Chinese with the rest made up of Malays, Cambodians, An-namites, Shans and Burmese—all members of the large Mongolian Family. These people are generally not temporary sojourners in the land however but fixed residents, in many cases descendants of people who have settled in the nation centuries ago, and they are now hardly distinguishable from the true Siamese. In the past there have been large Chinese immigrations and a considerable portion of the Thai population is of Chinese extraction. There are about
2.000	Europeans and1 Americans in Thailand engaged largely in business, as officials in the Government or as missionaries. Two-thirds of the foreign population is centered in Bangkok. The climate is not unhealthy but its humidity makes it unpleasant for most Europeans and Americans. There are two seasons, a wet and a dry. The latter
extends from November to April and is the best time for visiting the country.
The Thai people are gentle, patient, law-abiding and hospitable to travelers. They are light-hearted, sympathetic and little given to quarreling or to violent crimes. Marriage takes place at an early age, the men marrying at 17 or 18 and girls at 14 or 15. Among the upper classes a man may have"more than one wife but the first wife is recognized as the head of the household. Buddhism is the principal religion of the people but all religions are tolerated. The white elephant is held in reverence, the Thai people believing that the soul of a king or of Buddha himself is embodied in the animal. The caste system, such as that in India, does not exist in Thailand.
The dress of both men and women consists of the panung, a yard-wide piece of cloth three yards long which is wound around the waist so that it hangs down and covers the thighs. Most of this cloth formerly homespun is now machine made and imported from Great Britain and India. Silk is used instead of cotton by the wealthy and nobility. The ladies of the court have panungs of seven different colors, one for each day in the week. Those who can afford them wear shoes and stockings, the majority go bare-foot.
Stable foods are rice and fish with which a small quantity of hot water or tea is taken. The food is placed in dishes on the floor and the family squat around these and eat with their fingers- Spoons, forks and knives are used only by the upper class-es. Foreign drinks are confined to a very limited circle. The intoxicating beverage of the people is arak which is brewed from rice or sugar. Tobacco is more commonly used for chewing than for smoking. Betel-nut chewing is a habit common to all women and
at banquets it often takes the place of dessert.
Theaters, moving-picture shows and open air sports such as kite-flying and football are very popular among the Thai people who also patronize cock-fighting and fish-fighting exhibitions in large numbers. Houses of lower orders are formed wholly of wood or bamboo roofed with palm leaves and mostly raised on piles as along the Ganges in India. Not many houses in the capital are built with brick and mortar. Many people live in houses constructed on boats which abound in the rivers near Bangkok.
Siamese is the official language. However some of the different races and tribes of the interior have languages of their own. English is understood and spoken by the educated classes and is now taught in most of the schools. Elementary education is free and compulsory. In addition to the public school system there are a number of foreign missionary schools as well as government teacher’s training schools, Chulalankarana University and a University of Moral and Political Sciences.
Things To See in Thailand
In some ways Thailand is as old as Buddha; in other ways it is as modern as radar. The traveler will revel in these picturesque contrasts. For example, in Bangkok there is the Grand Palace, actually a walled town, covering more than one square mile. In its heart, in breathtaking splendor, is the Temple of the Emerald Buddha, said to safeguard the nation from harm, which is guarded by giant statues. Supposedly created by the King of the Gods from a single clear piece of jade it was carried from town to town by a Siamese potentate until one hundred and sixty-three years ago when it was placed in the Phra Keo Temple in Bangkok. Yet in contrast, the ultra-modern