Pa\ Amerïcajv
2	World Airways Teacher	May-June, 1949
rPjr	Pan American
World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1949, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City. 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
MAIL BAG...
Gentlemen:
It was a most pleasant surprise (and a rare one!) to read such a fine article on Spain as appeared in your March-April, 1949 issue of World Airways Teacher. This was Volume V, No. 4.
It gets so monotonous to read of the “greedy” Spaniards whose main interest was gold; of the Galicians who are stubborn and hard-headed; of the Andulusians who do not trust themselves, much less foreigners ; and that kind of trash. It was really refreshing to read of contributions Spain has made to the world, and to read that the people as a whole are trustful and very friendly even to strangers.
Having been born in Spain, no one can appreciate better than I such a fair over-all view of good and bad in the country geographically and culturally.
Hats off to Mr. Enrique Portes!
Mary Pena Detroit, Michigan
Dear Sir:
Many times I have thought of writing to tell you how we appreciate and find your paper the “Pan American World Airways Teacher” such a valuable asset in our teaching. Thank you, too for the material on New Zealand that we received on Saturday. Will you accept the postage enclosed?
Thank you again for your kind attention. Sr. Mary James Newark, New Jersey
Gentlemen:
Thank you for the Latin American “kit” which I received this morning. . . .
We shall use this material in the International Club. One of our staff .... is in charge of a program to take material and students to schools in the city and in the county so that the youngsters may have direct contact with students from foreign countries.
We shall use all this material in this program.
Thank you for your kindness in sending us this material.
Victor Whitehouse Coordinator and Adviser to Students from Abroad Ohio University
Dr. Whitehouse refers to PAA Unit iVo. 3 “The Other Americas’’, now on deposit in visual centers throughout the country. A fezv sets still are available and will be sent on request to Visual Directors on a first come first served basis.
Veteran Air Line
Oldest air line in the western hemisphere is a Colombian company called Aerovias Nacionales de Colombia generally abbreviated to AVIANCA.
The company was organized in 1919 and operated for twenty years under the direction of German personnel under the name SCADTA. It was taken over by Colombian personnel in 1940, reorganized and renamed AVIANCA, and expanded to a domestic system in Colombia embracing 15,871 route miles.
In April AVIANCA became an international company when its crack flight “The Colombian” started operating into New York City. The initial twice a week direct service between Barranquilla Colombia and New York (with a stop at Miami) later will be augmented with services to Jamaica and British West Indies.
AVIANCA uses Pan American World Airways pilot training and maintenance standards, and PAA is general agent for AVIANCA in the United States.
Pardon us, Senor!
With the article on Spain in the March-April issue of World Airways Teacher we published what we thought was a photograph of the late, famous Manolete—the great Spanish bull fighter. The identification in the picture files said it was Manolete.
It wasn’t though.
Jose M. Coll of the Spanish Tourist Office in New York set us right.
The photograph from which we made the accompanying cut went down to Mr.
MANOLETE—Positively identified . . . .
Coil’s office to be positively identified. He replied as follows :
“We hasten to return herewith the picture which you have sent, and we are glad to inform you that this one is really Manolete’s”.
Our thanks to Mr. Coll, who we might add, will be happy to provide tourist information about Spain. Write him at the Spanish Tourist Office, 500 Fifth Avenue, New York 18, N. Y.
Visitors in the Colleges
Our U.S colleges and universities have 26,759 foreign students on their campuses this year, representing 151 countries, colonies, dependencies, protectorates, absorbed states and states a-borning.
Our source for the foregoing information is the Institute of International Education, which also' is the source for the phrase “states a-borning”.
The Institute’s census of the foreign student population was published recently in a booklet entitled Education for One World which, although full of statistical tables which you might think would be dull, actually makes very interesting reading.
The noses were counted this year with the aid of the universities as sources and International Business Machines for tabulating and sorting. The Institute therefore has a permanent record for at least 95 per cent of the foreign students in the United States, and can work out such specialized data as, for example, “all the men from Brazil studying Food Technology or all the men from Iraq studying Petroleum Engineering” if desired.
PAA-Load Event
Elsewhere in this issue (Page 6) is an announcement of the PAA-Load Event which will be a feature this year at the National Model Airplane Meet at the Naval Air Station, Olathe, Kansas, as well as at a series of other gas model contests throughout the United States.
Pan American World Airways’ expert on these matters is a young executive named Dallas B. Sherman—a free flight model fan of long standing, and a pilot of multiengined transport craft for the Air Transport Command during the war. Currently he is Special Representative for PAA in Tokyo.
A high spot in Sherman’s career was the designing for Edgar Bergen of a free-flight gas model to be custom-built for Charlie McCarthy.
That, of course, makes Col. Sherman a private designer of gas models for ventriloquists’ dummies, and we believe him to be the only person who can make that claim.
G.G.