Pan American
Worid Airways Teacher	13
2.	Have a “talking pages” program in the Assembly with some of the famous quotes from some of the books you have read and some of the historical episodes in the history of the Philippines.
3.	Use the questions in this issue as a quiz assembly program.
4.	Plan debate on the position of the Philippines in the world today and what we may or may not expect from the future.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
A.	Audio and Visual aids. Make good use of movies, strip films and reading materials.
B.	Pictures and magazines.
C.	Personnel.
D.	Realia.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
A study of these islands should stir up interest in the other islands of the Pacific and the part they will take in the future
of the world.
Further help in finding out facts :
	adherence	attached to a cause or purpose
	alien	owing allegiance to another country
	allocations	setting apart, assignments
	appropriation	anything set apart for special purpose
	archipelago	large body of water studded with islands, a group
		of many islands
	augmented	increased
	benevolent	kindly, generous
	bicameral	consisting of two chambers or branches
	bilateral	two sides
	canonized	regarded as a Saint
	cataracts	resulting in complete or partial blindness
	counterpart	a person or thing similar to another, a reproduction
	desiccated	thoroughly dried, evaporated
	devastated	destroyed, laid waste
	dialect	form of speech peculiar to a people
	diversification	variation
	dormant	state of sleep, not used
	electorate	those who elect, the mass of voters
	emancipated	released from authority or control, set free
	espousal	protection of a party, a-doption of a cause
	exploitation	using for selfish ends, bringing into use neglected natural resources
	guerrillas	irregular band of warriors
	heresy	opinion or view differing from recognized standards
	implementation	making use of something to accomplish a purpose
	incalculable	too numerous for estima-
•		tion
	insular	having the character of an island
	lanzones	resemble plums
	liberated	released, set free
	martyr	one who submits to death rather than give up his
belief
non-combatants
ordeal
preponderant
putrid
ratified
rattan
reciprocal
rehabilitation
sarongs
suffrage
tangible
threshold
transitional
unassuming
vanquished
those who have duties other than fighting severe test of courage or strength
superior number and force tainted
approved, confirmed long stem of climbing-palm
mutually exchanged, convertible restoration
garments of colored silk or cloth
vote in support of a measure or opinion, right of voting, participation in elections
within reach by touch, real entrance, beginning change from one condition to another
modest, making no pretenses
overcame, conquered, defeated
Bibliography
Juan of Manila—McSwigan—Dutton Dutch East Indies and the Philippines— De Leeuw—Holiday House Ocean Outposts-Islands of the Pacific— Follett—Scribner
The Philippines—Hart & Wilson—American Book Co.
Picture Story of the Philippines—O’Neill— McKay
Picture Map Geography of the Pacific Islands—Quinn—Lippincott Swords and Sails in the Philippines— Sowers—American News I Served on Bataan—Redmond—Lippincott They Were Expendable—White—American News
Jungle Boy—Carveth—American News Today’s Geography of the World—Merrill History of the Philippines—Barrow—World Book
Crisis in the Philippines—Porter—Knopf The Philippines—Roosevelt—Sears A Brief History of the Philippines—Fernandez—Ginn
The Philippine Islands—Forbes—Harvard University Press
The Philippines—Hayden—Macmillan
Mother America — Romulo — Doubleday Doran
The Philippine Islands and the U.S.—Grun-der & Livezey—Norman, University of Oklahoma Press
Native Peoples of the World—Keesing—-Macmillan
Old World and Its Gifts—Meyer-Hamer-Grisso—Follett
Islands of the Pacific—Daniel—Putnam Odyssey of the Islands—Taylor—Scribner Orphans of the Pacific—Horn—Reynal & Hitchcock
Philippine Islands—Foster—Dodd Philippine Story—Bernstein—Farrar,
Straus
Philippine Islands: Description and Travel —Dobby—Wiley
Conquest of the Philippines by the United States—Storey—Putnam Spell of the Pacific—Stroven—Macmillan Good Fight—Quezon—Appleton Century The Open City.— Mydans—Doubleday Doran
Seven Thousand Islands—Spencer—Aladdin World Geography—Bradley—Ginn Geography of the World.—Packard-0 ver-ton-W ord—Macmillan A Child’s Geography of the World—Hillyer —Appleton Century Crofts Men of the Sulu Sea—Follett—Scribner I Saw the Fall of the Philippines.—Romulo —Doubleday Magazine Articles Look—June 2, 1953 Travel—Feb. 1953 Scholastic—Nov. 4, 1953 Newsweek—Aug. 2, 1954; May 3, 1954;
April 26, 1954 Readers Digest—Sept. 1954 America—March 1953 Business World—May 2, 1953 Time—July 1953; Aug. 1954; June 1954 Colliers—Jan. 7, 1955 Outdoor Life—April 1954 New Republic—April 27, 1953
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION Philippine American Chamber of Commerce —50 Broad Street, N.Y.C.
Philippine Consulate General—350 Fifth Avenue, N.Y.C.
Philippine Travel Bureau—240 Broadway, N.Y.C.
Philippine Mission to the United Nations— Empire State Bldg., N.Y.C.
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
(Continued from Page 4)
now are an independent nation instead of a part of the United States, it is necessary to have a passport and visa to go there. Application for the passport will be made at the Passport Office of the State Department. The visa may be obtained at the Philippine Embassy in Washington, or at a consular office elsewhere. It will be necessary also to have a certificate for small pox vaccination within three years.
The Philippine Islands have no limitation on the amount of foreign currency brought in, but it must be declared upon arrival. They do impose a limitation upon the amount of their own currency brought in or carried out, that limit being 100 pesos.
In planning a wardrobe for the trip, bear in mind that the climate is mild, but most of the year, rather damp. It is wise to select clothing made of wrinkle-resistant materials. Materials suitable for wear in the Philippines include rayon, cotton, sharkskin, gabardine and other light materials. Sports clothing should be included.
Finally, it is wise to learn as much as possible about the Philippine Islands and its people as it is possible to do by reading and by talking to people who have been there, including, if possible Filipinos now living in the United States. The other articles in this unit are intended to give at least a start towards that learning process.