Pan Amer rcan
World Aíruave Teacher
THE PHILIPPINES
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugénie G. Nadelman
is noted as the beautiful mountain city of the
* Philippines. It is accessible only by road and air as train connections end in the foothills. 5,000 feet above sea level it has an average temperature of 64.2 degrees F. and is the Summer Capital of the nation as well as a popular vacation spot.
Mindanao, the second largest and most southerly of the major islands is often referred to as the frontier of the Philippines. In its virgin forests, fertile valleys and green-clad mountains lie some of the greatest untapped resources in the Far East. The Philippine Government is currently sponsoring large-scale development projects in Mindanao. Principal cities are Davao, Zamboanga and Cagayan de Oro. Abaca fiber (for rope), copra, hardwoods and pineapple constitute the principal exports. Davao is the Island’s bustling city and port of call. The biggest abaca plantations of the Philippines are on Mindanao. There are also vast grasslands which support an extensive cattle industry and a huge pineapple plantation and canning factory.
Sugar Bowl of Philippines
The central group of islands lying between Luzon and Mindanao are referred to as the Visayas. The principal islands in this group are Samar, Negros, Panay, Leyte, Cebu, Bohol and Masbate. Their chief city and port is Cebu City with Iloilo on Panay and Baca-lod on Negros other important communities. The Visayas are the “Sugar Bowl” of the Philippines, growing a major portion of the Republic’s sugar. Copra, coconut oil and lumber are other important crops.
Possibly one of the most important factors in the future of the Philippines, and one of the major contributions of American sovereignty is the Islands’ extensive educational system which reaches into the remote sections of the nation. The Public School system, established at the beginning of the century with the aid of American Educational Missionaries, has advanced steadily. Today, the buildings and grounds of public schools not only serve the primary purpose of housing pupils and teachers but also play an active part in educating the children who attend them, and the community, in the new modes of thought and conduct which are gradually modifying the life of the Filipino people.
The curricula of the Philippine public schools are basically similar to those in the United States. There are two outstanding differences however. One is that the Filipino pupil from his first day in school has to labor with a foreign language and to study every other subject in this alien tongue. The second is that the curricula are designed not only to give pupils an elementary academic education and some training for active citizenship, but also to develop habits of living which are not traditional in their homes and communities.
It is often said that, as a race, “the Filipinos have a passion for education”. Events have proven that they have an equal passion for freedom and for work. This trio is an unbeatable combination in the World of Today and will remain unbeatable in the World of Tomorrow as well.
I.	PROBLEM : What does the future hold
for the Philippine Islands?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	Study of the Spanish American War and the beginnings of the United States as a World Power.
2.	Study of the small member nations of the United Nations.
3.	Study of World War II and the exciting incidents involving these islands.
4.	Realization of the strategic position of the Philippine Islands in the world news of today.
5.	The statement that war has left a deep scar on the Islands but the future is bright.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: 2 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	Helen Keller, starting her world tour, will stop at the Philippines. Follow her as she goes on her 40,000 mile crusade to improve facilities for the blind.
2.	Review conditions under which the United States became interested in the Philippine Islands.
3.	Stories of World War II. Mac-Arthur’s famous statement, “I shall return”.
4.	A review of one or more of the books mentioned in this Bibliography.
5.	The use of audio-visual aids mentioned in this issue.
6.	The story of a parent or relative who
may have been stationed on the Philippine Islands.
7.	The story of Carlos Romulo who has become well known in the United States through his writings and through his work at the United Nations.
8.	Stories of recent elections in the Philippine Islands.
9.	Stories of recent uprisings in the Philippine Islands.
B. Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How did the United States become interested in the Philippine Islands?
2.	What is and has been the relationship between the United States and the Philippine Islands?
3.	How did the Philippine Islands progress toward independence?
4.	Who were some of the leaders who made history in the Philippine Islands ?
5.	What is the position of the Philippine Islands in the world today?
6.	How have its natural resources contributed to its own building and to world trade?
7.	What are the future plans and possibilities ?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies:-—location of the group of islands; names of the few places we know, Luzon, Mindanao, Bataan Peninsula, Corregidor, Leyte; history of the Islands before they
■
FISHING BOATS—The scene is the Pasig River, just outside Manila. The craft with masts are fishing boats—families live on them in the thatch-covered huts. In right foreground is an outrigger canoe.