16
Pan Auer iCA tv
World Airways Teacher
PEN PALS—Above, three youngsters in the headquarters of the International Friendship League in Boston examine letters which have come in from some of the 136 countries and territories in which the League has correspondents. In the three pictures at the right, letters which they wrote to Austria are delivered to a high school there, received by the students, and carried home for display to Mother, who is at work in the family store.
INTERNATIONAL PEN PALS
Next best thing to travelling in faraway, romantic places, hundreds of thousands of boys and girls are finding, is to make pen friends in them.
To have a real friend in another country is to feel that you have an “in” there. And, as a matter of fact, it’s not unusual for pen pals to get together actually, for it is so much easier to arrange to visit a foreign land when there’s someone there to arrange a welcome, to extend home hospitality and to proudly show off all the interesting things— not just the traditional sights sought out by tourists.
The opportunity of having pen friends in the free countries of the world is open to Americans from ten years of age upwards— anyone who would like to write regularly and receive answers from friends abroad.
As the official headquarters for pen friends, the International Friendship League in Boston is the clearing house for those in 136 countries and territories who wish pen friends in the United States.
The League itself is in its teens. It was founded 18 years ago “to promote better understanding among the youth of the world through personal pen friendships and travel exchanges”. The idea caught on and spread like wildfire. To date more than a million pen friendships have been launched by the
League. A quarter million Americans have been introduced to three or more friends abroad and have kept on corresponding . . . some of them for the full 18 years since the League was set up. Quite a few have met personally and had a wonderful time.
Although the League set out to bring younger children together, it has spread to teen-agers and older. Besides writing letters, they like to use their cameras to show America as it really is. They send flash pictures of parties and marshmallow roasts. They snap pictures of picnics and ball games. They begin to watch constantly for good shots of their home towns, their pets, their sisters and brothers and their friends. Actually they find themselves looking at their own lives—and their own country—through new eyes.
Then there is the swapping of gifts— everything from stamps to books, music, magazines, special things such as embroidered scarves, handmade jewelry, carved objects and art work.
And then there’s always the distant—or near—planning to welcome a pen friend in person in America, or to enjoy their hospitality in their own country.
The pen friend requests from abroad pour into the League headquarters at the rate of (Continued on Page 15)
For information on how to take part in this fascinating friendship-by-air-mail, send a self-addressed, stamped envelope to
International Friendship League 40 Mt. Vernon Street Boston 8, Mass.