Pan American
World Aîrmys Teacher
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
1.	NATION IS BORN, 20 min. Sound, Black and White. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd Street, New York, N. Y. One of the “This is America” Series.
A new nation—the fledgling Republic of the Philippines—was born out of the nightmare of Japanese occupation. Preparation for freedom was begun long before in the transplanting to the Philippines of American education ideas and ideals.
2.	PEARL OF THE ORIENT, 10 min. Sound, Black and White. Sterling Films, Inc., 316 W. 57th Street, New York, N. Y.
Scenes of the Philippine Islands, including rice planting, pearl diving and native customs.
3.	THE PHILIPPINE REPUBLIC, 16 min. Sound, Black and White. McGraw-Hill, 330 W. 42nd Street, New York, N. Y. Produced by March of Time.
Review of the past and current history of the Philippine Islands in terms of its people, resources and social problems. Emphasis is placed on education and economic advances made in the islands under United States rule. The new Philippine Republic is now faced with political, economic, social and industrial problems, and the enormous tasks of reconstruction after years of war and Japanese domination.
4.	PHILIPPINES—DESTINY FINDS THE PATTERN FOR A FREE WORLD, 22 min. Sound, Black and White. Harmon Foundation, Division of Visual Experiment, 140 Nassau Street, New York, N. Y.
A survey of Philippine geography, mineral and agricultural resources and history thru Spanish, American and now home rule.
5.	PHILIPPINES — ECONOMIC PROGRESS, \2]/2 min. Sound, Black and White. U.N. Film Division, United Nations, New York, N. Y.
Shows the assistance being given to the government of the Philippine Islands by the U.N. Technical Assistance Program. Also depicts the progress being made in the paper pulp industry and the development of Philippine Air Lines.
6.	PHILIPPINES — SOCIAL PROGRESS, 10 min. Sound, Black and White. U.N. Film Division, United Nations, New York, N. Y.
The U.N. Technical Assistance Program has helped in developing nation-wide health services. These, as well as other services provided by UNICEF, WHO, and UNESCO are shown.
Filmstrips
1.	KOKO OF THE PHILIPPINES, 45 frames, silent with captions. Young America Films, 18 E. 41st Street, New York, N. Y.
This filmstrip is one of “The Children of the Orient” series. It tells the story of Koko, a young Filipino boy who lives near the rice fields on the island of Leyte.
2.	AGRICULTURE IN THE PHILIPPINES, 57 frames, silent, color. Produced by the American Geographical Society. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.
Presents the crops and farming methods of the island. Ten frames are devoted to sugar cane—its planting, harvesting, and processing. Others show abaca and pineapples, both commercial crops, and rice and corn, the staple Filipino cereals. Two pictures are included of the Ifugao rice terraces.
3.	PHILIPPINE ISLANDS. UW-Govt. 97 frames, sound, color. Produced for the U.S. Navy. Disc recording: 2 sides, 16" 33 1/3 rpm, 19 min. United World Films, 1445 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.
Discusses the three major areas (Luzon,
Viscayan, Mindanao) ; the weather, terrain, location of cities and islands, edible food, fish and animals; how to pick sleeping-quarters ; and how to protect oneself from pests.
4.	PHILIPPINES—LAND AND THE PEOPLE. 42 frames, silent, color. Produced by the American Geographical Society. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.
A descriptive study of life in these tropical islands. Points up many contrasts—modern transport in Manila and the ancient carabao carts of the interior, bamboo and cogon grass housing in rural areas and the scientifically constructed city homes. Shows colorful markets, primitive tribes, home industries and relics of the Spanish colonial period.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
Prom the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons”
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
LOCATION . . . This group of 7,109 islands (only 462 of which are larger than one square mile in area) lies in the Malay Archipelago. Borneo lies to the southwest and Formosa less than 100 miles to the north. Luzon is the largest of the islands.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Manila has practically recovered from the war and offers, a welcome to tourists. The roads, highways and hotels are excellent. Beach resorts, within an hour’s drive from the city, are splendid. English is generally spoken and the average American feels at home even though the scenery, the people and the customs are foreign. Winter is a fine time to visit the Philippines, for the sun shines constantly and the outdoor life is good.
POPULATION . . . 19,234,182 in 1948, of which 9,073,705 live on Luzon.
SIZE . . .The total land area is 115,601 square miles, slightly larger than Arizona, but the islands are spread over an area as large as Mexico. Luzon, with 40,420 square miles, is the size of Kentucky.
CAPITAL . . . Quezon City, a suburb of Manila, is now the official capital, although the seat of the national Government remains in Manila, which has a population of about 983,906 or approximately that of San Francisco.
GOVERNMENT . . . Formerly a dependency of the United States, the Philippines are now a republic of 51 provinces with a President and a bicameral legislative body. The Philippines were granted their independence on July 4, 1946, by the President of the United States. There are 51 provinces and 26 cities in the Philippines.
HOW TO GET THERE . . . By Pan American Clipper from San Francisco via Honolulu, about 36 hours (elapsed time) to Manila. Hong Kong is 3 hours and 45 minutes, Saigon is 5 hours and Singapore is another 2 hours. By ship from San Francisco, 17 to 21 days.
The information presented under the heading “Quick Reference Facts” is from the PAA travel guide book New Horizons, 1954 revised edition.
“New Horizons” is a 576-page travel report, with hundreds of photographs, especially drawn maps in two colors, and up-to-date facts about 78 countries of the world.
It tells what clothes to take, what to do about laundry and tipping, how to have fun, what to see and buy, and everything else the air traveler needs to know to be happy and comfortable and save money.
The new edition is enlarged in all
sections, includes 15 countries not represented in the earlier editions, and is printed in handy pocket size. DISCOUNTS FOR QUANTITIES On orders by teachers and by school superintendents, principals, purchasing agents or librarians the following discounts are available:
1 to 9	No discount $1.00 each
10 to 25 copies 20% discount .80 each 26 to 100 copies 30% discount .70 each
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
DEPT. NH-E, P.0. BOX 1111,
NEW YORK 17, N. Y.