Pan Amerfcan
World A/rwave Teacher
7
MANILA—This photograph was taken from the waterfront, looking across the city, and the area included has been entirely rebuilt since World War II.
brought back to Manila, charged with heresy and political propaganda, condemned and shot. His execution increased the rebellion against Spain. Scientist, physician, poet, patriot and martyr, Rizal has been called the most important man not only of the Philippines but of the Malay race.
The last night in prison Rizal wrote in Spanish his celebrated poem “My Last Farewell” and gave it to his mother. We shall quote here lines of the English version : Farewell, dear isles beloved of sea and sky Where once we envisioned the gleam of Paradise,
For your dear sake it seems divine to die, And were life fresher, brighter, still would I Walk smiling onward to the sacrifice. Harken my soul to you at parting cry, Hail, my country ! how lovely ’tis to expire, To die that you may live a life yet higher, The dead to slumber underneath your sky.
What Language?
Although English is spoken by practically every Filipino, Tagalog has been voted as the national language. At one time Spanish was the lingua franca between various groups, yet it is losing ground and today it is in danger of being forgotten. Fortunately streets, mountains, rivers—even the names of the people—bear Spanish names. It would be a pity to let it disappear.
While the problem which poses the creation of a national language is great, one cannot forget the characteristics of the Filipinos—their perseverance and pride in achieving what they intend to do. We also know that the Filipino is a courteous person, always enthusiastic about education, politics, and international questions. The Filipino is usually small and has a graceful physique. Filipino women are quiet, unassuming, carefully dressed, with fine manners, and pleasant voices. Many of them are entering today with great enthusiasm into the professional
field, such as medicine, dentistry, pharmacy and the law.
The Filipino has great self-respect. At the beginning of this century-—so the story goes—a campaign against malaria was going on. Strict laws were passed to make city and country residents obey health regulations. Some people—as everywhere in the world—did not care to obey them. If after fair warning owners of land in the cities allowed mosquito-breeding places to remain on their property, their names were pub-
lished in a newspaper “Roll of Dishonor”. The shame of having one’s name printed in such list made the few lawbreakers abide by the rules without further delay.
On the March
The Philippine Republic is a growing democracy. It is an independent nation which fought well for its freedom and values it highly. Its geographic position makes it a center of transoceanic air and sea lines from North and South America. While the Philippine Constitution is similar to that of the United States, it is not a mere copy of it. The government is divided into three branches. Philippine law is a blending of the Civil Law taken to Spain by the Romans and to the Philippines by the Spaniards. Americans brought the Common Law, the Arabs their Mohammedan Law, and many Filipino customs were incorporated into the new system. The archipelago is divided into provinces, and each province elects a governor. Senators are elected for six years, and the Representatives for four. The President of the Republic holds office for four years.
Through the improvement of inter-island travel, the building of new railways and roads, the use of every means of communication this archipelago will become a compact nation. The Republic has the material to achieve that goal—the Filipino people. They are the country’s wealth, hope and future. Let us repeat the lines of Jose Palma’s song to the Philippines:
Land of the morning,
Child of the sun returning,
With fervor burning,
Thee do our souls adore.
Land dear and holy,
Cradle of noble heroes,
Ne’er shall invaders Trample thy sacred shore.
LOCAL TRANSPORTATION—Note the mat covering for the wheel which the driver has put in place so that his passenger may use the wheel for a hand rest when she steps down. The vehicle is a caretela, and is the Manila equivalent of a taxicab. Manila also has automobile taxicabs.