Pan American
World Airways Teacher
LEGASPI—This city in the southern part of the island of Luzon, the main island upon which Manila also is situated, is a focal point for communities in that part of Luzon and on neighboring islands. Mount Mayon, say the Filipinos, has the most perfect cone of any volcano.
support of, the objectives of the United Nations Organization ; friendship towards the United States of America ; and espousal of the cause of all non-self governing peoples of the world”.
The Republic’s Government is based on a constitution adopted in 1935 and amended in 1940 and 1946. The President and Vice President are elected for four years, both being eligible for re-election for another term. The President is assisted by ten departmental secretaries in charge of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Justice, Agriculture and Natural Resources, Public Works and Communications, Education, Labor, National Defense, Health and Commerce and Industry. The bicameral Legislature consists of a Senate of 24 members and a House of Representatives of 100 members. Senators are elected for a term of six years but by a system of rotation, only eight are voted upon every two years. The term of office of representatives is four years. Suffrage is enjoyed by male and female citizens 21 years of age or older who can read and write Spanish, English or a native language or dialect and who meet certain residential requirements.
The constitution vests in the Republic all ownership of the country’s natural resources. Exploitation of natural resources was originally limited by the constitution to citizens of the Philippines or of the United States and to corporations or associations 60% of whose capital is owned by Filipinos or Americans. However, an agreement signed between the Philippines and the United States on July 4, 1946, threw open to American interests or companies the exploitation of natural resources open to Fili-
^	Philippine Trade Act
The Philippine Trade Act of 1946 was intended to determine economic relations between the Philippines and the United States for a period of 28 years (until July 3, 1974). In accordance with the Act, free trade on a reciprocal basis was in effect for a period designed to be sufficient for recovery from the war. At the beginning of 1955, a graduated duty is to be imposed by the United States on dutiable Philippine products, with the exception of coconut oil, cigars, tobacco and pearl or shell buttons. Quotas for these four items were fixed, but beginning in 1955 are to be reduced annually with the amount of the quota to be duty-free. Absolute quotas were provided for sugar, cordage and rice for the entire 28 year period, but these commodities are subject to gradually increasing tariff duties after 1954.
After the Second World War a mission was sent to the Philippines to report to our President on the economic and financial problems of the Islands giving recommendations for solutions. This report was made in 1950 and the implementation of the recommendations was assigned to the Economic Cooperation Administration (now called the Mutual Security Agency). As a result the Foster-Quirino Agreement was signed in November, 1950, under which the Philippines were required to enact certain legislation recommended by the mission in order to qualify for U.S. financial aid. Upon completion of the Philippines’ part, a bilateral
agreement called the United States-Philip-pines Cooperation Pact was signed on April 27, 1951 clearing the way for U.S. aid. The largest aid allocations have been for projects in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The second largest amount was for general commodities, and lesser amounts were for projects in transportation, communications, public works, public health, vocational education and social welfare, for manufacturing, mining and industries.
Matching dollars with pesos, the Philippine Congress has authorized the expenditure of a Philippine contribution or counterpart for U.S. dollars. This fund is administered by the Philippine Council for U.S. Aid and no funds may be expended from either national appropriation without approval of both United States and Philippine agencies. The program is properly described as a strictly joint endeavor of two free independent nations in the interests of mutual security and progress.
Farming Ranks First
Farming is the single most important occupation in the Philippines. It furnishes a livelihood for more than two-thirds of the people and it produces 80% of the annual output of wealth. Even more significant is that agriculture offers an opportunity for considerably more development which, in turn, would raise the living standards of the entire population and produce new capital to develop other industries.
More than half of all cultivated land is devoted to the raising of the principal food crops, unhusked rice (palay) and corn (maize). Other major crops are coconut, abaca (Manila hemp), sugar cane and tobacco. Over 98% of the total cultivated area is owned by Filipinos with a little over half of the farms being less than 5 acres in size.
The principal fruit is the banana. There are also oranges, mangoes, sweet potatoes, coffee, cacao, peanuts, pineapples, lanzones, avocados, onions, radishes, garlic, tomatoes, lettuce, cabbages, eggplants and other truck garden vegetables. Practically every farmer has his own livestock and nearly every family has a poultry yard and hog pen. Both raw sugar and refined sugar are exported. Rubber is also cultivated mostly on large plantations in the south and crude rubber is exported. The Philippines are among the foremost nations in the world in the production of copra and coconut oil. The United States buys all copra, copra cake, dessicated coconut and coconut oil.
Future of Forestry
Forest lands of the Philippines also offer room for further development. It is estimated that the forests could be made to produce nearly ten times their present yield if new uses could be found for the wood. There are valuable hardwoods with some of the best known varieties being referred to as Philippine Mahogany. The stand of timber in commercial forests is estimated as close to 500 billion board feet. Approximately 97% of the forests are government owned. A part of commercial timber is exported, the rest being used domestically in building construction and a great variety of other purposes from shipbuilding and furniture to the making of musical instruments and sporting-goods. Minor products gathered in the forests include rattan, resin, gums, oils, beeswax, firewood, charcoal, medicinal plants and orchids.
Many of the agriculture and forestry projects, undertaken in partnership by the Philippine and United States Governments, have not had their full impact upon the life of the average citizen as yet. Instead of