PaIV Am erica/V
World Ars wave Teacher
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO THE PHILIPPINES
Preparing for an air trip to the Philippine Islands, whether real or imaginary, we will be reminded that this air transport route is of special historical significance. It was the first long over-ocean air route ever to be opened for scheduled air service for passengers, mail and express—twenty years ago, in 1935.
The airplane which inaugurated transpacific service was the China Clipper, most famous of all the historical air line aircraft. China Clipper was a four-engine flying boat, of the M-130 series, built by the Glenn L. Martin Company of Baltimore. There were two other M-130’s, sister ships of the China Clipper. Their names were Philippine Clipper and Hawaii Clipper, and those three aircraft were the fleet for the weekly service to Manila which began in 1935.
Captain Edwin C. Musick was in command for the inaugural flight, leaving San Francisco on November 22, 1935.
Captain Musick and the other members of his crew had prepared themselves for this conquest of the Pacific by serving in Pan American World Airways’ Latin American division, flying to Latin America as crew members on regular schedules, also operating special flights for developing and testing new procedures for aerial navigation, radio direction finding, radio communication and fuel conservation to make possible such long ocean flights as the 2400-mile journey from the West Coast of the United States to Hawaii.
Time and again, they had made “Flights to Nowhere”—flights carefully plotted from Miami out across the Caribbean to a point marked only by a point on the navigator’s chart, and identified on arrival by “fix” determined by star sights with a sextant, and then back to Miami, to cover a distance comparable to the San Francisco-Hawaii flight and other long over water flights which they later would execute over the Pacific.
Later they had participated in surveys of the Pacific route in the Sikorsky S-42 flying boat American Clipper. The Sikorsky, veteran of trans-Caribbean air service, was the best long range air transport craft of its own day, and afterward was to be used for the survey flights of the Atlantic route. But when loaded with fuel sufficient for the longer ocean hops, it could carry only an insignificant amount of payload (passengers, mail and cargo), so while American Clipper was making the Pacific surveys, the newer China Clipper was being readied for regularly scheduled commercial service.
Another major undertaking which preceded that inaugural flight on November 22, 1935 was the establishment of bases on the “island stepping stones” between California and the Orient.
One of the reasons for electing the Pacific Ocean for the first of the transoceanic air routes was the fact that these island stepping stones were all U.S territory, and of course the Philippines then were U.S. territory too. To operate an air service to a foreign country it is necessary first to have that country’s permission to land there. Negotiations were under way in the early thirties for permission to land in England, Portugal and elsewhere, for scheduled trans-Atlantic service, but it was obvious that additional time would be needed to bring these negotiations to a conclusion, and meanwhile the Pacific service could begin, to Manila at any rate, with all the bases on U.S. soil.
Landing areas were not too much of a problem, for flying boats were to be used, and it was necessary only to find stretches of protected water deep enough and wide enough for landings by aircraft such as the American Clipper and the China Clipper.
But facilities for handling and servicing the aircraft had to be provided, also air navigation aids, radio direction finding and radio communications stations, weather service and facilities for service to passengers. This was not too much of a trick at Honolulu, Guam and Manila but at Midway the only local population consisted of the station crew for the Pacific telegraph cable, and at Wake Island, the only population consisted of terns and other tropical birds, and a huge colony of small but exceedingly hungry rats descended from a group of shipwrecked castaways.
Thus it was that the freighter North Haven was chartered by Pan American World Airways and sent to Midway and Wake, carrying everything that would be needed not only for air stations there, but also for every daily need of the construction crews that would build these stations, from a radio transmitter down to needle and thread for replacing lost suspender buttons.
A stupendous j ob, but it was accomplished in a matter of months, and on November 22, 1935 all was in readiness. With appropriate ceremony and fanfare, and with hundreds of thousands of persons watching from the hills around San Francisco Bay, China Clipper moved away from the dock at Alameda, taxied out into the bay, took off, and headed over the Golden Gate into the setting sun
with the first air mail for the Philippines.
In that beginning period the Clippers departed for Manila every Tuesday afternoon at 4 P.M. It was an overnight flight to Hawaii, with the aircraft arriving after daylight Wednesday morning. The plane remained in Honolulu all that day and night, and the following morning departed for Midway—schedules were arranged in those early days so that all take-offs and landings would be made in daylight. After Midway and an overnight stop for crew and passengers in the Pan American Airways Inn, there was another daylight flight to Wake, and another overnight stop in a Pan American hotel. Still another daylight schedule brought the flight into Guam, and a final flight completed the journey to Manila, on the fifth day out of San Francisco.
Departure from San Francisco was -oiv Tuesday and arrival in Manila on Monday, which at first glance would seem to be the sixth day—but between Midway and Wake the Clipper passed over the International Date Line, Friday suddenly became Saturday, and a day went out the window, not to be retrieved until the return journey when the process would be reversed and the date would revert to yesterday.
The route to Manila as it is flown today appears on the map above. Nowadays the Flying Clippers operate around the clock, and our departure from San Francisco, Los Angeles or Seattle for the West Coast-Hawaii sector of our journey may be in daylight or it may be as late as midnight. Our plane is a four-engined “Strato” Clipper (Boeing B-377).
Unless we schedule a stopover in the Hawaiian Islands just so we can have some time there, which is an excellent idea, we will be there for only two to three hours while the aircraft is being serviced, and then we will go aboard again for the flight direct to Wake Island. (Midway no longer is a scheduled stop.) Another short layoff in Wake, and we are once again on our way, this time with Guam as our destination. The final flight is Guam to Manila, where our scheduled arrival is just 37 hours out of San Francisco.
Now, in making ready for our real or imagined trip from the United States to Manila, we have looked up the history of the route, and compared it with current service. What else should we do to make ready for this trans-Pacific journey?
First of all, since the Philippine Islands (Continued on Page 13)