12
Pan Amerícan
Would Airways Teacher
were ceded to the United States ; after ; the various U.S. Governor Generals of the Philippines ; work in the United Nations and SEATO ; Santo Tomas University; education in the Philippines ; makeup of the islands (volcanic and coral) ; Mt. Apo and Mt. Mayon, highest peaks ; most important rivers, Rio Grande de Cagayan, Mindanao and de Pampan-ga ; lakes ; Laguna de Bay and Mindanao lakes ; kinds of peoples : discovery by Magellan, 1521 ; contributions of Rizal, Quezon, Osmena, Aguinaldo, Roxas, Romulo, Magsay-say ; Mindanao deep ; elections and facts on government ; “sugar bowl” ; other important exports and imports ; products grown for domestic consumption; part in World War II; position in the world today ; various acts leading to independence, Hawes-Cutting, Tydings-McDuffie ; cities and capital : Manila, Quezon City, Cebu, Davao, Legaspi ; Huks ; language, Tagalog (87 languages in all) ; handicrafts of the people, embroidery, woodcarving ; tribes, Igorots, Bon-toks, Ifugaos ; most people farmers ; Foster-Quirino Agreement, 1950 ; part of Mutual Security Agency in helping the Philippine Islands. (Much information for the Social Studies subject matter may be found in this issue.)
2.	Science :—there is much of interest in this area in the study of the Philippines. Formation of the islands, archipelago ; various species of wild life, mouse deer, wild buffalo, water buffalo, parrots, parakeets, cockatoos, hornbills, bats, civets, mongooses ; earthquakes ; Mindanao deep, deepest place in the world’s oceans, 7 miles, 35,400 feet below the surface ; pearl oysters ; tropical climate ; typhoons ; 3000 species of trees ; fruits, mangoes and papayas ; tropical hardwood forests; Tagaytay City, lake resort, volcano in the middle of a lake ; International Date Line, day changes in the Islands before it does in the United States; Taal, Manilla, many colored liquids.
3.	Mathematics :—there will be good application for figures and estimations in measuring distances from your home city to the Philippine Islands and in checking times and dates of arrivals and departures ; figuring population on the various islands ; percentages belonging to the various tribes and religions ; total number of islands, number having names ; graphs of production and trade graphs showing with which countries most trading is done ; graphs showing-number of people employed in various industries ; comparing various heights and depths on and around the island ; the money system (peso) ; comparison of size of various islands in square miles ; travel time, 18 days from the West coast by boat and 46 hours by
plane; time line depicting the history of the Philippine Islands; graphs showing amount of rainfall (average 120 inches during the year).
4.	Health:—story of the part the United States played in helping to rid the Islands of tropical diseases; health campaigns in Manila; diseases spread by some of the wild life; artesian wells helped to cut death rate; favorite sports such as, baseball, boxing, polo, cock fighting, yachting races; variety of foods for varieties of peoples such as rice, fish, corn, copra, tropical fruits, Chinese and Spanish foods.
5.	Language Arts:
a.	New words :—helpful vocabulary is listed at the end of this unit. There are also other words you will come across in your reading as pigmy, mestizo, tao, barrio, comotes, filipinas, pina cloth, abaca, copra, etc. These will also be explained at the end of the unit.
b.	Spelling :—many new words connected with this unit. The spelling of names of people and cities will be difficult.
c.	Oral Communication : — discussions on the ceding of the Philippines to the United States and their growth to independence; talking over experiences in the Philippines during World War II; reviewing some of the exciting-books on the Philippines ; sharing facts through reports; interviewing people; describing pictures and commenting on visual aids.
d.	Written Communication:—letters to the Philippine delegation to the United Nations; letters seeking information; book reviews; a flight log from your home city to Manila; an imaginary sightseeing trip to visit the various tribes; imagining a descent into the Mindanao deep; describing a trip through the “sugar bowl” ; writing of the events that led to Mac-Arthur’s famous statement, “I shall return!”
e.	Literature:—review of some of the material listed in the bibliography; stories of the fall of Corrigedor, Bataan and Leyte; writings of Carlos Romulo; Jose Rizal; Francisco Balagtas; Guerrero, Apostal, Kalaw and Villa.
f.	Penmanship :—history of writing ; use of sharpened bamboo sticks as pens and palm leaves as paper.
6.	Art :■—home handicrafts of the people such as embroidery, carving, bamboo work, jewelry, work on linens and other textiles; National Museum and Art Gallery; western culture in oriental setting; painters de la Rosa, Arettano and Amoriolo.
7.	Music:—ballet schools and ballet public performances; every Sunday afternoon there are concerts by the Philippine Army Band; in Las Pinos
there is a bamboo organ, the only one in the world; Song Source Material for Social Studies Units (Columbia University) songs of the Philippines, Page 15.
B.	Skills:
Using current periodicals; skimming, organizing and outlining pertinent data should be developed in this unit. Since there is so much discussion on what the future holds for these islands following-daily newspapers will be very important.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
1.	An appreciation of the difficulties facing all new nations as they struggle to make their independence work.
2.	An interest in the part the Philippine Islands has played and will continue to play in the present world situation.
3.	A realization of the similarities among peoples as they try to reach similar goals.
4.	An appreciation of the difficulties to be met in trying to unite so many islands inhabited by so many varied peoples.
5.	An interest in the lives of the past and present leaders.
6.	A realization of what the Philippine Islands have to offer other nations of the world.
V. SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	Things to do:
1.	A good deal of map work should accompany this study. Have the class make maps showing locations; routes to other parts of the world; products ; population, etc.
2.	Visit the United Nations (children 12 years of age or over may go as a class) and make arrangements to speak with a member of the Philippine delegation.
3.	Interview relatives who were in the Philippines during World War II.
4.	Have an exhibit of handicraft from the Philippines.
5.	Show the visual aids suggested in this issue and use them as a starting point for discussions.
6.	Make a scrap book of news items on the Philippines and a “Who’s Who” in the Philippines.
7.	Share some of the exciting events you read about in some of the books listed in the bibliography.
8.	Make charts illustrating the many species of wild life on the Islands.
9.	Compare the leaders of this republic’s fight for independence with those of the United States and other new republics.
10.	Chart the routes taken to the Philippines years ago and those taken today. Begin with the Chinese geographer Chao Ju Kua and end with the route of the Flying Clippers. Show a comparison of time and distance.
11.	Make charts showing the change of time at the International Date Line.
B.	Culmination:
1. Have an exhibit which you may share with other classes.