Pan Amerîcan
2	World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 9 5 5, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
MAIL BAG . . .
Sir:
On page 15 of the December 1954 issue of the Pan American World Airways Teacher issue there appears a photo of a seaplane in connection with the article “Avianca has 35th Birthday.” The caption identifies the airplane as a “Fokker airplane on floats”, the craft is actually a Junkers JU.13 powered by an 180 hp BMW 6 cyl. water cooled engine. This particular airplane on floats was known as JU.13W, the “W” standing for “Wasser” (water).
Please excuse my commenting on this subject, just practicing my job.
Sincerely yours,
Alex Dawydoff Technical Editor
Air Trails, Hobbies for Young Men
Thanks, Tech Editor Dawydoff. Avianca says you are right, and our Captioning Department stands corrected.
Sir:
I have read your article in Pan American World Airways Teacher entitled “Colleges Encourage Educational Travel by Awarding Academic Credit”, and note that you have not included Puerto Rico as one of the states granting academic credit for educational travel.
Beginning in the Summer of 1952, we have been operating summer study trips to Europe (including France, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Germany and Holland) for our students and professors. In 1952 we had three groups with a total membership of 163; in 1953 two groups with a membership of 114; and in 1954 two groups with a membership of 112. In the summer of 1955 we plan to send two groups consisting of approximately 50 members each.
The students who go on the trip to Europe get 3 credits equivalent to an elective in the College of Humanities.
Very truly yours, Elisa L. Pagan University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico
Our survey included mainland U.S.A. only, thus missing some interesting information such as supplied above by Miss Pagan.
Once again Puerto Rico has demonstrated outstanding alertness in meeting the challenges of the Air Age.
Pan Amer ¡can
World Airways Teacher
HELIPORT—One of the Port Authority’s helicopters takes off from the helicopter airport on the top of the Port Authority office in lower Manhattan, while another hovers to await an opportunity to land.
WHEELCHAIR BASKETEERS
An employee activity in which Pan American World Airways takes especial pride is its basket ball team composed entirely of polio victims, all of whom are employed by PAA in its accounting department as junior accountants, clerks or I.B.M. operators in the System office, New York City.
Wheel chair basket ball players play according to the rules of national collegiate basket ball, with certain modifications to adapt those rules to the limitations within which men in wheel chairs are subject. For example, in wheel chair basket ball a dribble consists of (1) two pushes of the chair and then two taps of the ball to the floor ; (2) two pushes and two taps in series with either or both hands; (3) simultaneously tapping the ball with one hand while pushing the chair with the other.
The illustration shows a member of the Pan Am Jets during the course of a game with another team in the Wheel Chair Basket Ball League. At the time the picture was taken, the Pan Am Jets led the league with an unbroken string of wins.
HELICOPTER FLIGHT
How would you travel from Eighth Avenue and Fourteenth Street in New York City to the George Washington Bridge, to the New Jersey entrance of the Lincoln Tunnel, to the Statue of Liberty, to the Bush Terminal in Brooklyn, to the Battery, to the New York Post Office and back to Eighth Avenue and Fourteenth Street, all within the space of twenty minutes?
The World Airways Teacher Editor recently made such a trip, in the time mentioned, in a helicopter of the Port of New York Authority (see cut).
WHEEL CHAIR BASKET BALL — A
tense moment in a game between the Pan Am Jets and the Flying Wheels.
Helicopter traffic in the New York City area has reached a substantial volume, with regular scheduled service connecting the airports offered by New York Airways, with helicopters operated by the New York Police Department, and the military services, in addition to the fleet maintained by the Port Authority.
M.O. “Sammy” Chevalier, Helicopter Pilot for the Port Authority was at the controls when the World Airways Teacher Editor made the flight mentioned above, and took special delight in hovering in front of the Statue of Liberty so he and his passenger could wave to tourists peering out of the windows in Miss Liberty’s crown. He was flying a Bell 47 G Helicopter, which has a top speed of 92 miles per hour, cruises at 75.