Pan American
World Airways Teacher
15

Aviation and the Cold War
(Continued from Page 1)
he world’s undecided peoples that partnership with the free nations is mutually advantageous and better for them than the grim darkness behind the Iron Curtain.
This situation, I believe, is the most serious ever to challenge the United States.
How, then, shall we wage the fight?
Obviously, United States tax dollars cannot do the job required. Our tax dollars could not buy enough food to feed properly three-quarters of mankind, nor could we, with tax dollars, buy and give them capital goods to raise their living standards without wrecking our own economy.
It is encouraging to see that the Administration is striving to provide the tools which private industry needs to undertake the job. The Randall Plan, for example, will greatly expand sound two-way trade between the United States and the countries of the free world. Enactment of the Randall Plan will be a practical demonstration of our desire and ability to assist other nations in their efforts to help themselves.
Another tool is Secretary of the Treasury George Humphrey’s recent announcement at the Rio Conference that the Administration would recommend to Congress a reduction of U. S. taxes on foreign-earned income—-a program obviously aimed to eliminate double taxation and to encourage private investment in Latin America. Another constructive plank in the Humphrey program contemplates greatly extended operations of the Export-Import Bank, whose lending authority was recently increased by Congress. I believe, however, that the Humphrey plan should be broadened to include the continents of Asia and Africa as well as South America. Asia and Africa are obviously the next victims in the designs of international communism in the cold war.
With these sharp new tools, American private capital and know-how could do a worthwhile job. It could meet Soviet competition and prove to uncommitted nations that, what they have to gain by choosing the free world as a partner, is very great indeed. We should not forget that our country was largely built up by capital from Europe. Now we, and we alone, have sufficient capital to help develop other countries.
American aviation can also play a very important role here.
It is simple economics that a country cannot develop unless it has a proper transportation system. The United States was staked out by pioneers in stage coaches, but it was not until the days of the Iron Horse (made possible by European capital, incidentally) that we grew to be a nation. Later, of course, highways, pipe lines and airlines I have added to the web of the United States transportation system to strengthen our economy and raise our living standards to the highest in the world.
Today, however, many underdeveloped countries cannot wait for railroad and highway systems to be developed. Geographical or political conditions force them to skip
these earlier stages and enter directly into the age of flight. Take Pakistan, for example, a country split into two parts. Aviation, still unfortunately on a pitifully meager basis, is already linking East and West Pakistan and helping the brave and struggling people of this new nation to carry on in the shadow of the Russian bear to their North.
India offers another good case in point. It is a country of great distances, without adequate rail or highway transport—a country of modern cities and ancient villages, of mingled wealth and poverty, mixed cultures and traditions. The limited and struggling plane service already under way symbolizes the progress which India is making-today. Technically strengthened and expanded, domestic air transport in India could be a true catalytic agent to transform and develop the economy of that great subcontinent.
Africa, a few short years ago, was a dark continent linked together only by rivers and the sea lanes along its coast. Only now is aviation beginning to open the whole heart of Africa.
In our own hemisphere, our great and good neighbor Brazil has many of its magnificent cities separated by oceans of savannah and teeming jungle. Except by air, these cities are weeks of travel time apart. Air transport here has already made a start. But great expansion is possible in passenger traffic and particularly in the field of air freight.
Expanding and improving the internal transportation systems of present-day underdeveloped countries represents a great opportunity for the American aviation industry to be of service. Its capital and know-how in partnership with local investors, and supported by appropriate medium-term credits beyond the usual capabilities of commercial banks, can measurably strengthen the countries we wish to be our friends. With the growth of adequate transportation will come agricultural improvement and in-
dustrial development. Better education, health services, more advantages for workers will follow. And this growth will be in the American tradition of freedom and free enterprise, not in the. pattern of serfdom which is the other alternative.
Just as important, of course, is the need for adequate long distance transportation to these underdeveloped areas where the cold war is increasing. The major international airlines can be counted on, I know, to give these areas the priority they deserve. Speaking for Pan American, I can assure you we are preparing to do just that, and I am glad to be able to say that many leaders of the flag lines of Europe have also indicated their interest and concern. Every encouragement—public and private—should be given in order that these long distance life lines to the underdeveloped areas of the free world may be kept strong.
Equally important in the cold war is adequate sea transport. I am sure that the great ocean carriers, both American flag and European, will also do their full share of the job, supported, I hope, by governmental maritime policies that will give the fullest consideration to their problems.
Steps I have just mentioned, important as they are, make up only a part of what is needed. All American business, our government, our educational and religious institutions, individual American men and women —all have crucial parts to play. We should be helped by one fact at least. Now we know what lies before us. We realize the stark threat to our future security facing us today in winning over to our way of life the world’s underdeveloped, uncommitted countries.
Such knowledge is power. It will help us make every blow more telling, each move more effective. It will serve to keep us alert, eager, determined to prevail. I know that, in the years ahead, it will help all of us, in American aviation, to fight the good fight in the cold war.
INTERNATIONAL PEN PALS
(Continued from Back Page)
more than a thousand a day which means that every American can have several pen friends overseas. Each American member contributes a small fee when he joins—there is no annual dues-—and in return receives a list of carefully matched names of persons of the same age and with similar interests. The letters go directly person-to-person around the world; they can be as often and as long as you wish. Everyone uses air mail, of course, because then it is just a matter of days for a letter to travel from the United States to any point in the world. This means everyone can write more often and friendships become firmer in a much shorter time.
It’s not only the fun that makes this kind of thing so worthwhile. There’s a valuable by-product of happy pen friendship, valuable to each country and to the effort to build a world growing up, with the pen friends, into a freer, more secure tomorrow.
The importance of the exchange of letters to this world free of fear and hate which
everyone is trying to build is shown in the letter just received from President Eisenhower :
“I am happy to extend my best wishes to those who by means of the International Friendship League stimulate goodwill, human understanding and the true spirit of brotherhood among all the people of this divided world. Few undertakings can more realistically attack the roots of our international discord and suspicion; few offer better prospects, over the years, of building more enduring world ties. To all who engage in this fine enterprise I send my compliments, with the hope that ever-growing success and achievement will crown these valued efforts.
Sincerely,
Dwight D. Eisenhower” A stamped, self-addressed envelope to International Friendship League, 40 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston, will bring you an official registration form by return mail.