
» î
Pa/v American
World Alrways Teacher
U

April, 1957
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XIII No. 4
EDUCATIONAL TRAVELERS GET SET FOR BIGGEST SEASON ABROAD
By George Gardner
When school’s out in June, “classes” will begin for the educational travelers who will take off for far places over most of the world, including Russia.
Many are on their way now, without waiting for June. Teachers on sabbatical leave, also faculty members and students in colleges on the quarter system, where they can schedule school vacations for any quarter, can travel off season, enjoying less crowded conditions and lower rates.
The Pan American educational tour directory “Adventures in Education,” published annually, shows many organized tours departing between January and June. (See box on this page for instructions about requesting a free copy of “Adventures.”) In the 1957 edition there are 268 educational tours listed, and they include 67 around the world, 114 to Europe, 11 to Europe and Africa, 12 to Europe and the Middle East, 20 in the Western Hemisphere and 44 labeled Pacific and the Orient.
Nor is educational travel confined to the organized tours. Singly, in pairs, and in small informal groups, teachers and students are pursuing the quest for knowledge of the world this year in numbers greater than ever before.
Of course there is no sharp dividing line between travel for pleasure and travel for educational purposes. And it is perfectly true, also, that any travel, for whatever reason, has an educational aspect.
Organized tours offering college credit may be listed as courses in summer school catalogs, and necessarily follow study outlines, specify reading lists and involve indoctrination and lectures. But one may acquire college credit through travel, by going abroad and enrolling in a university in some other country. In many public school systems, a teacher may get credit
CHsb34i, ''cc l
for professional advancement by proposing a trip and submitting an outline of objectives, carrying out the travel, and then reporting on it.
Then, too, the travel may be of great value educationally, but not involve college credit simply because the traveler does not require it. He already has his Ph.D, but wants more knowledge in a given field and can get it most readily by visiting other countries.
So educational travel is a comprehensive concept. Nevertheless, it is possible to pin down some criteria. Adventures in Education poses the question: “Educational travel —what is it?”
The answer: “Essentially it is a carefully planned program of travel that purposely creates opportunities for you to study, first hand, the peoples and customs of other countries. An educational tour may or may not include actual study in the classroom of a foreign university — but in any event you are richly rewarded with a scholarly understanding of the lands through which you travel.
“You not only see . . . you learn.
ADVENTURES IN EDUCATION
Opportunities for educational travel abroad in 1957 are listed in “Adventures in Education,” Pan American’s directory of tours with special appeal for teachers and students, many of them offering college credit.
For a free copy address a post card to Educational Director, Pan American, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y. Give name and address, and ask for “Adventures in Education.”
8r /. f Ik.,-
“Most educational tours are comprehensive in character . . . allowing you to absorb as much as possible of a country’s culture in the time allotted. But there are also tours built around particular subjects . . . enabling you to “major” in history, sociology, music, education or literature if you wish.”
There is a great variety. There even are tours for the educator’s educator. Dr. William Reitz of Wayne State University will lead a European Study Tour in Comparative Education, taking to the air for the tenth time in the summer of 1957.
Leaving Wayne Major Airport in Detroit on June 21st, 1957, via Pan American World Airways, the group, consisting of educators, doctors, lawyers, nurses, engineers, clergymen and other professional persons will fly to London for a ten day visit to England, and will then board a plane for Paris and the Continent.
Travel enroute in Europe will be chartered deluxe motorcoach with the connecting facilities of Pan American again being utilized to fly into and out of Berlin, which, along with Vienna, will be the highlighted city on the 1957 itinerary. The group will return to Detroit via PAA on August 24, 1957.
The European Study Tour in Comparative Education visits England, France, Italy, Switzerland, Germany, Austria, and Holland in addition to the “postage stamp” countries of Monaco and Lichtenstein, the whole 65-day journey being literally the “Grand Tour” of Europe that surveys selected highlights of the life and culture of Western Europe. In addition, members of the group who are qualified university students may earn up to 8 hours of undergraduate or graduate credit to apply on degree programs, for teacher certification, for annual (Continued on page T-3)