World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 4
A police guard of honor is inspected by Bahamian Governor Sir William L. Murphy at the annual ceremonies attendant upon the opening of the Legislature in Nassau, Bahamas.
Nassau’s hotels are excellent in each price range. Most lavish is the British Colonial, open the year round, which is really a self-contained resort, with private beach, swimming pool, and tennis courts. Two miles out of town and overlooking beautiful Montego Bay is the very lovely Fort Montagu Beach Hotel right on its fifty-acre estate along the ocean front. Newest hotel is the Emerald Beach on Cable Beach.
Just a block away from Bay Street, Nassau’s famous main shopping street, is the famous Royal Victoria Hotel, an old place with the kind of age that is an asset. During the Civil War it was a favorite hangout of Confederate blockade runners. Today no one fails to visit it. From the verande of this hotel’s upper stories the very heart of Nassau can be seen. The Hotel’s garden is one of those things one seldom forgets. Mocking-birds carol in the green oasis of ancient tamarinds — a world almost as much removed from mundane intrusion as the world of one’s, lost youth. In the Victoria’s garden one finds haughty palms, planted in a jungle of tropical growth, which lead to the climax of a ceiba whose branches spread as though to shelter all mankind. Lilies and orchids, ferns and dangling lianas form appropriate members of its community. At night fairyland takes shape within the precincts of the Victoria’s garden. Veiled lights glimmer from the heart of trees, concealed, revealed, as breezes stir the fronds.
Nassau’s streets are lined with historic old churches and beautiful Colonial houses. Bay Street is Nassau’s chief thoroughfare. Its north side is taken up largely with wharves and markets and with such institutions as the Royal Bank of Canada and Vendue House, once the scene of slave auctions, now headquarters of the telephone and telegraph. Some interesting public buildings are situated on Bay Street such as the Council Chambers, the Post Olficc, the House of Assembly, the Public-
Library and the building which houses the Colonial Secretary.
Government House tops an eminence known as Mount Fitzwilliam. The view of it obtained from George Street is impressive. A flight of steps leads to the ample gardens. Dominating the approach stands a statue of Columbus modeled in London with the aid of Washington Irving, and presented to the Colony by Governor J. Carmichael Smyth.
There are in Nassau many wishing wells. In Ardastra Gardens they can be seen along with quaint rustic bridges in a setting of lovely flowers, shrubs and trees. The British Colonial Hotel is built over Black-beard’s Well. Anybody drinking the water of this well, according to an old legend, will surely return to the Bahamas.
Blackbeard is, of course, a name one always associates with the Bahamas. And they don’t let you forget it either, for the history of New Providence — and of Nassau for that matter — could no more spare Blackbeard than Shakespeare’s masterpiece its Hamlet. Daring and extravagance have been flaunted along the water-front of Nassau.
Perhaps the standing example of Nassau pageantry was in 1718 when Captain Woodes Rogers came to govern the colony. Rogers had not been himself averse to marauding the Spanish Main. With all the zeal of a convert, he set himself to his job. A motley assembly of pirates, whom he had been sent to capture or reform, stood at attention as he landed. Two hundred were to take the oath of allegiance. Eight of the more notorious, Rogers chose to hang at Fort Nassau. Blackbeard was not there. Captain Teach was known as Blackbeard on account of the bushy growth on his face, worn braided into tentacles — making him look like an octopus. To look more diabolical, “he stuck lighted matches under his hat, which, appearing on each side of his face, and his eyes naturally looking fierce and wild, made him altogether such a figure
that imagination cannot form an idea of a Fury from hell to look more frightful.” Teach was a master in the art of marooning. Blackbeard met his end with his boots on. Lieutenant Maynard was sent to take him. It was not without the loss of many men that Maynard — after a hand-to-hand battle in the course of which Blackbeard was riddled with shot and cutlass wounds — was able to sail back to port with the pirate’s head a “bloody trophy nailed to the bow of his battered sloop.”
Memories of this sort may haunt you at sight of Blackbeard’s Tower. On its walls one can read: “This Tower according to legend is the Lookout built and occupied by Edward Teach (Blackbeard) the notorious Pirate who infested this Island and the surrounding Seas in the early part of the 18th century. In the Creek near-by he Careened his Ships.”
One always returns
The Bahamas so near to us will always be present in our memory. Dolce far niente is a mood dear to Bahamians. Visitors may often get into this mood though there are so many activities around — swimming, golf and tennis, with dancing thrown in. Paradise Nassau often means Paradise Beach. The Mediterranean, the French and the Italian Rivieras can hardly compete with the blue of the Caribbean. One always remembers the gaily parasolled tables at lunch time, the populated breakers where swimming is a must, the lonely curve of gleaming coral sand where strolling is a pleasure at sunset.
And how can one forget the sea gardens seen from glass-bottomed boats! It is a strange feeling to see under your feet, beneath your boat, minnow-like fish, brilliant as butterflies, darted among the long grasses. You admire the clarity and purity of the water, and then you see, rooted in beds of white sand, fabulous growths resembling plumes continuously waving; gigantic sea fans of velvety purple, veined white, and canary yellow, and staghorn coral completing the foliage. Studded with anemones of various colors in the garden; brain coral, gorgonian sponges, poisonously barbed urchins. The Marine Gardens are peopled with angels . . . angel fish, flat as flounders, in white and yellow or in black and sunlit gold. And you see gray snappers, trigger fish, grunt, luminous parrot-fish. And never a fish will turn its glassy eyes upon you.
And then you will associate the Bahamas with your school days. For it was one of these islands that Columbus saw the New World for the first time. San Salvador was the name given by Columbus to his landfall in the New World and, with identification of Watling’s and San Salvador, the original name has been restored. Clad in armor and wearing a scarlet cloak, the Admiral stepped ashore and knelt to hear the Mass — the first to be celebrated in the western hemisphere. Here the Lucayans greeted the white man whose coming was tire beginning of a new era for them.
The Bahamas offer us a mighty treasure of delight by the Caribbean Sea — and just a few hours flight from our homes.