World Airways Teacher
Pages	STUDY UNIT
BERMUDA AND THE BAHAMAS
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: What contributions can
these small islands make to the world
of today?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	Because of the airplane these islands have become havens for tourists and the number of visitors increases daily.
2.	Study of life on an island in comparison to life in a large metropolis.
3.	The United States is interested in these islands as naval bases and defense posts.
4.	To show how scientific advances have changed the contributions formerly made to the rest of the world.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	A vacation trip by a student of the class or by the teacher is a good starting point.
2.	Advertisements for tours to Bermuda and the Bahamas found in all daily papers may be used to interest the class.
3.	The selection of Bermuda as the place of President Eisenhower’s meeting with the British Prime Minister stimulated an interest in the island.
4.	The many travelogues on Bermuda and the Bahamas seen in the movies and on television may be used to start the class thinking.
5.	Books listed in the bibliography may be used to start a discussion.
6.	Other audio-visual aids listed may be used as a starter.
B. Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why is the popularity of Bermuda and the Bahama Islands increasing?
2.	What do these islands offer to the world geographically, economically, politically?
3.	What is so interesting about their history?
4.	Why is there such a variety of flora and fauna?
5.	What changes are constantly being made because of air travel?
6.	How can inhabitants live so well when there is so little to trade?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject matter:
1. Social Studies — Bermuda, most northerly coral island in the world; discovered by Juan de Bermudez; English colony, governor appointed by the King; Bermuda parliament, oldest next to London; must be property owner to be elected to Parliament — made up of House of Assembly and Legislative Council; one third of population is white; no income, real estate or sales taxes; tourists, main industry; pound, unit of money; everything imported but
fish; no livestock, high cost of milk; Bermuda onions; woolens, leather goods, perfume, china, silver are good buys; perfume factory, only factory on the island; no free schools; importance of geographical position; total land area, 22 square miles; highest point 259 feet above sea level; colonized by Virginia Company; part Bermuda played in Revolutionary and Civil Wars; Bermuda lily is exported; strict immigration laws; town of St. George; capital city of Hamilton; resistance to change; made up of many islands.
Bahamas also chain of small islands; British Crown Colony; “out islands”, San Salvador (Watling), landing place of Columbus; Woodes Rogers, first Royal Governor; part played during Revolutionary and Civil Wars and Prohibition Days; islands of Bimini, Abaco, Andros; Nassau, the Capital, on island of New Providence; governor appointed by the Crown; Duke of Windsor, former Governor; no mountains or rivers; tomatoes, sponges, turtles, exported; pink cameos made from conch shells; cascarilla bark from which a tonic is made; tourist industry.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue will be helpful.
b.	Oral communication may be concerned mostly with description. Beautiful scenic pictures may be described, stressing words of color and beauty; stories read about “pirate days” and the exciting early history of the islands may be re-told; first hand experiences of students, parents and teachers will be interesting to hear.
c.	Written communication — reports made by students; imaginative stories such as “A Day in a Glass Bottomed Boat”, “Watching a Yachting Regatta”, “Shipwrecked Pirates on the Shores”, “Days of Blockade Running”; invitations to other classes to share these stories and those told by visiting personnel.
d.	Literature — adventure stories of the beginnings of these islands will be popular; (refer to bibliography); stories of “Blackbeard” and the pirates; finding out why these were called “Devil’s Isles”; reading about Eleutherian adventures; land where legendary and historic meet.
3.	Science: importance of climate “where it is always Spring”; Nature-conditioned” climate; in Bermuda, the Easter lilies; 11 species of birds; game fish; oleanders; poinsettias, hibiscus, passion flower, bougainvillea, bird of paradise; cedar trees; dependent
NASSAU, Bahamas — The waterfront along a part of Nassau Harbor has until recent years been the center of commercial life of the community. Today, fishermen and farmers from the Out Islands anchor and barter their wares in the colorful section.