World Alrmyr Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 2
OUR CUPPER TRIP TO NASSAU
If Nassau is our destination, we’ll have an opportunity to fly on the non-stop service to the Bahamas inaugurated in February, 1957 hy Pan American.
There are departures on the Nassau route daily, and the service includes the First Class President as well as the Rainbow Tourist class. The flight takes three and a half hours.
Preparations for the journey are very simple. No passport or visa is needed. It is recommended only that we have with 11s a ready means of identification. A driver’s license will serve. Those who hold passports do carry them, since this is an excellent, positive means of identification.
Nor is there any restriction as to funds carried into the Bahamas, in dollar form. There is a restriction on Bahamian, Bermudian, Jamaican or Bank of England currency. The traveler is limited to £5 in these currencies. It is convenient to have a little pocket money in Bahamian currency on arrival, and this may be obtained at the bank at the airport, but it is by no means necessary to have it.
One thing we do want to think of well in advance is the wardrobe which will go with us. The Pan American travel guide New Horizons recommends that for Nassau we take lightweight summer clothes. Sports shirts and shorts or slacks are appropriate and convenient for men.
Women take washable spectator dresses or sundresses; shirt-type blouses and shorts are acceptable, but note that abbreviated costumes are not worn on the street in the Bahamas as might be , the case in some resort areas.
Swim togs are required, of course, and those who are addicted to skin diving, or who are interested in trying it, bring along such gear. Or, if they do not have it, they
acquire the equipment after arrival.
We’ll plan for a shopping spree. Just how extensive this is going to be depends upon the state of the pocket l>ook, of course. Nassau has fine shops for purchases in both the budget and deluxe categories, and a favorite purchase is a length of fabric from England, or a garment fashioned from such a fabric.
For an extended stay it is fun to visit some of the other islands. (Nassau, the capital, is on New Providence Island.) The “Out Islands” may be reached hy scheduled and chartered air services, and by the regular mail boats.
Abaco, at Green Turtles Cay is a popular hunting and fishing site.
Largest of the Bahama Islands is Andros, which is 35 miles southwest of Nassau, and the location of the Andros Yacht Club.
Bimimini is the island nearest to the
If we select Bermuda as our destination we’ll travel over the first regular air passenger route across the Atlantic Ocean.
The first continously operated scheduled passenger service, that is. For a time, there was a service across the Atlantic in the German dirigible airship Hindenburg, but this was discontinued.
When Pan American was preparing for inauguration of service on the Atlantic in the late thirties, the survey flights were sent all the way across to Europe, some of them via Bermuda and the Azores, others by way of a more northerly route. Then, when it came time to start service with passengers, mail and cargo, the Bermuda service was undertaken first, and later the service was extended to the other side of the ocean (1938).
U. S. mainland, and is regarded as the “gateway to the Bahamas” by yachtsmen.
Governor’s Harbor, Eleuthera is the site of the first attempt at permanent settlement of the Bahamas by the British about 1648.
Harbor Island, Eleuthera is famous for its Pink Beach, of pink coral sand.
Rock Sound, Eleuthera traces its name to an older time when ship wrecks were not uncommon, and the name originally was “Wreck Sound” or “Wraek Sound.” It now is a resort area.
If we want to continue beyond Nassau to other destinations in the Caribbean or elsewhere in Latin America, this is easily possible. A glance at the map on this page shows how we are already a long step forward on our way to Latin America, when we’re in Nassau. Or if this is the extent of our trip, then we’re only 3i/2 hours from the starting point at New York City.
In those early years, the service was offered in flying boats. The original Bermuda Clipper was a Sikorsky — for the longer Atlantic route the Boeing 314 boat was the original craft.
Today four-engine land planes operate the service to Bermuda, which is available every day from New York and twice weekly from Boston.
The flight takes four hours. (Note that Nassau and Bermuda are approximately the same distance from New York City — see map on this page.)
Preparations for the journey are quite simple, because no passport or visa is required. But the Bermuda authorities require that visitors entering the country hold tickets for their return journies.
As is true also of Nassau, you are entering the British empire when you visit Bermuda. Both Bermuda and Nassau are Crown colonies.
Although Bermuda is somewhat farther north than Nassau, climate is comparable, and the remarks about suitable clothing in the section on Nassau will apply to Bermuda also.
Bermuda’s own currency and coinage corresponds to the English pound and other denominations of English money, and the values correspond to those of English money. But American or Canadian money may be used everywhere — both are legal tender in Bermuda.
Transportation within Bermuda is mainly hy bicycle, and by horse and carriage. There are some buses, and there also are passenger ferries which take passengers between points which may be reached by water. Formerly there was a short railroad, but it was discontinued in 1947.
When it comes to shopping, the most popular purchases are goods from England such as tweeds, cashmere and Shetland sweaters, British and Scotch woolens, English leather goods, Wedgewood and Spode china and silver. Items from the West Indies also are available — trinkets and gadgets, cedar boxes and Calypso sport shirts.
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO BERMUDA