BY FLYING CUPPER TO
BAHAMAS-BERMUDA_______________Pages
THE PLEASURE ISLANDS OF BERMUDA
Geographical position of nations is one of the major factors conditioning foreign policies of the world. In many instances this factor has been the basic determinent of power politics, war and peace. But geographical position alone has seldom played so strange and fascinating a role in history as has been experienced by the Colony of Bermuda, situated in the Atlantic Ocean, 568 miles due east from Cape Hat-tcras, North Carolina. It was the main reason for their discovery and development, as well as the cause of first an interesting and later an extremely pleasant relationship between Bermuda and the United States.
Bermuda is actually a collective name of a group of about 150 small islands, the seven largest of which are connected by bridges and causeways and constitute what is commonly considered the Mainland. The total land area involved is approximately 22 square miles. The group constitutes the most northerly coral islands in the world. The highest point in Bermuda is no more than 259 feet above sea level, the remainder being thousands of feet below the surface of the sea. The surrounding ocean waters are incredibly deep only a few miles in any direction from the islands.
The Bermudas were placed on the first crude maps of the world after their discovery in 1515 by Juan Bermudez, a Spanish sea captain. Until the coming of modern navigational aides however, they were referred to as “the Devil’s Isles”. This reputation, gained because of the large number of sailing vessels claimed by the treacherous off-shore reefs did much to discourage colonization by the Spaniards. Actually, Spain never claimed the territory. From 1511 through 1608 there are various historical accounts of shipwrecks and attempted settlement of the Bermudas, which by that time had assumed a significant role as a possible defense post of the route from Europe to the Americas.
On July 28, 1609, the most significant wreck in the history of Bermuda occurred. On that day, the British vessel “Sea Venture”, part of a small supply fleet of nine vessels which had set sail from England bound for the then starving infant colony of Virginia, became lost in a storm and was wrecked on the mid-Atlantic reefs. Its Commander, Sir George Sommers, and 150 passengers landed on the isles and since that time the Bermudas have never been uninhabited. From that wreck arose English claims to the territory.
Later, in 1612, the Virginia Company was given the responsibility for colonizing the Bermudas. The Islands had a number of good and bad governors sent over from England by the Virginia Company. However, on the whole the people were not satisfied and in deference to their wishes the Crown withdrew the charter of the Virginia Company in 1687. On June 6th of that year, the first Assembly under the new regime was called. The Assembly
By Lou A. Phillips
quickly gained the reputation for independent thought and since 1687 neither the electoral procedures nor the independence of thought has changed. Administration of the Islands is in the hands of a governor, assisted by an Executive Council of seven members appointed by the Crown, a legislative Council of nine members also appointed by the Crown, and an elected House of Assembly of 36 members. The Governor, today, is regarded as a representative of Queen Elizabeth II. The electorate is based on property qualifications, real estate assessed at sixty pounds sterling being the minimum requirement.
For the next two hundred years Bermuda enjoyed a period of prosperity due in large measure to the sea and the position of the Colony. Bermudians, who by that time had developed into a race of seafaring men, began to build ships and the Colony's commerce prospered. They sailed to the West Indies and raked salt which they exchanged in America for flour, fish and lumber. Sometimes they would sail to the Canary Islands to await ships from India and China or sail directly to England to trade cargoes of rum and sugar for cash.
Bermuda’s reputation for fearless sailors soared and its ships were welcomed in ports through the Western Hemisphere. But on the other side of the ledger, the Island’s reputation for “salvaging” wrecked ships was also on the rise. Though there has never been any proof offered that Bermudians actually engaged in shipwrecking, there is no doubt that they were among the world’s most industrious “salvagers”
when it came to taking off goods from ships that crashed on the Bermuda reefs. Since Bermuda was on the Spanish treasure fleet’s route from the New World to Europe, this practice was a lucrative one and many a Bermuda fortune was founded on the profits of such enterprises. But other fields of endeavor also interested Bermudians. They became expert whalers and shipwrights and their small 100-ton vessels built of native cedar were considered among the world’s best for speed and economy.
In 1775, when the American Revolution was raging and Bermuda ships were barred from American ports, the Colony had one of its worst food shortages. While Bermudians were expert seamen, they despised manual labor. Consequently, most of their food had to be imported and the embargo made this virtually impossible. Realizing that Bermuda was short on food, the American Continental Congress offered to lift the embargo for Bermuda ships in exchange for gunpowder from the Governor’s Magazine. After many months of negotiation, the Bermudians agreed to the theft of the powder and in August of 1775 broke into the magazine, rolled 100 barrels of powder down a hill, loaded it into boats and sailed the precious cargo to the United States. The embargo was lifted and grateful Americans, using British gunpowder against British troops, sent over many shiploads of food to Bermuda.
During the American Civil War, the sea again proved its value to Bermuda, for the sea lanes between Bermuda and Wilmington, North Carolina became a broad avenue
BERMUDA. Closeup of Gombey dancers at the Harmony Hall. (Paget Parish)