BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
BAHAMAS-BERMUDA	Pager
Spring temperatures range from 64 degrees to 71 degrees; summer from 74 to 80 degrees; autumn from 70 to 75 degrees; and winter from 66 to 68 degrees. In dressing for the warmer months (mid-April to mid-November) women wear summer sports clothes, swimsuits, cotton dresses, short or long evening dresses, and lightweight coats, sweaters and stoles for evening. Men wear lightweight suits, sports clothes, Bermuda length shorts and white dinner jackets. For the cooler months (mid-November to mid-April) women wear lightweight dresses and suits, sweaters and skirts, sportswear, afternoon dresses, short or long evening dresses and weatherproof coats. Men usually wear tweed jackets, slacks, tweed or flannel suits, sport clothes, sweaters, black or white dinner jackets and topcoats.
There are approximately one hundred miles of roadway in Bermuda, most of which is paved with asphalt-bound macadam. Transportation is by means of small cars, horse-drawn vehicles, bicycles, motor assisted bicycles and boat. Regular motor bus service traverses the Islands. Motor cars are rigidly limited to eight to fourteen horsepower for passenger vehicles and thirty-two horsepower for commercial vehicles. The maximum speed limits are twenty miles per hour in the country and fifteen miles per hour in towns and built-up areas. Because of the smallness of the Islands, any destination is never very far away.
The town of St. George, which was the original capital, is located at the extreme end of the island group and is a place of great historical interest. One of the oldest English-speaking communities in the Western Hemisphere, its maze of narrow lanes and alleys lend an Old World flavor. Winding streets bear names that have been handed down over generations, Old Maid’s Lane, Printer’s Alley, Barber’s Alley, Shinbone Alley and Featherbed Lane. Special points of interest in St. George’s include St. Peter’s, believed to be the oldest Anglican Church in the Western Hemisphere; King’s Square, where the Town Hall is situated; the State House built in 1619 and the oldest stone structure in Bermuda; Somers Garden, a paradise of flowers, trees and shrubs; and the Powder Cavern, built of bricks covered with earth, and containing spacious storage rooms surrounded by galleries and sentry walks.
Somers Garden is of particular interest as it represents the simple story of a man who loved Bermuda so much that he left his heart there. Sir George Somers died in the colony in 1610, a short time after returning from a supply voyage to Jamestown. Obeying one of his Uncle’s final wishes, his nephew removed the old man’s heart and buried it in this garden before taking the body back to England. A short way from St. George’s is Buildings Bay where, after the wreck of the “Sea Venture”, the vessel “Deliverance” was built and later launched on its supply trip which has been credited with saving the starving colony at Jamestown, Virginia. A few miles further on is Tobacco Bay, the site of the loading of the stolen gun powder onto an American Frigate during the Revolutionary War for
transportation to Boston and Washington’s troops then fighting the battle of Bunker Hill.
Hamilton, the Capital City, is centrally located on the shores of a harbor of the same name. Its resident population is only 3,500 as most of the town’s people have homes in the surrounding countryside. The tiny metropolis is known as one of the world’s loveliest cities. With its buildings of many pastel colors, white roofs, picturesque and busy harbor, its air of antiquity belies its fame as a quality shopping center. Special points of interest in Hamilton include the Bermuda Cathedral, an imposing structure in modern Gothic architecture; the Bermuda Library and Pa-La-Ville Gardens, once the home of W. B. Perot who made Bermuda’s first postage stamps by hand; the Museum of Bermuda History, built some 200 years ago by a sea captain and featuring antique Bermuda cedar furniture, silver, china and hog pennies; and the Sessions House, a stately structure housing the Supreme Court Chambers and House of Assembly. Sessions are open to the public.
From Hamilton a ferry can be taken to Somerset Island. Somerset is the most rural appearing of all Bermuda parishes. Cattle graze peacefully on hillsides and farmers toil on rich farmland of red, volcanic soil. Each of Bermuda’s nine parishes seems to have a charm all its own and throughout the length and breadth of the 22 square miles of land that make up the Colony there is an ever-varying vista for the traveler. There are numerous fine hotels and guest houses, in addition to the many private residences providing a room or two for the use of paying guests. Bermuda guest houses however are not to be confused with what are known as “pensions” in European countries or “boarding houses” in the United States. They are, in reality, small but select hotels, catering to clientele who appreciate good living in refined surroundings, but who prefer home life atmosphere to the formality of larger hotels. Some of the smaller guest houses accommodate less than twenty guests. There are also secluded cottage colonies which are ideal for honeymooners or visitors intent on complete relaxation.
There are many lovely walks throughout the Islands, both on the roads and along the many beaches. The beaches are perhaps one of the greatest attractions in Bermuda. They stretch for miles along the southern coast, broken by headlands and short sections of rugged shore. Sea bathing is popular and can be enjoyed practically the year round, although the water in winter months is considered cold by many Bermudians. There are several clubs overlooking the shores and the sea, where one can dine and dance, and horse-drawn vehicles and small British cars can be seen taking visitors to and from them daily.
Yachting might be said to be the sport of Bermuda, and Bermudian yachtsmen have been outstanding in international races for many decades. International races of 6 meter and similar class yachts are annual events in the Great Sound. The
Bermuda style dinghy, a 14-foot one-inch undecked craft often carrying as much as 1,000 square feet of sail, is traditional. Among the many classes of small yachts racing about the Islands are International One Designs, Stars, Luders, International 14-Foot Dinghies, Bermuda Style Dinghies and Snipes. The biennial Ocean Yacht Race from Newport, Rhode Island to St. David’s Head, Bermuda draws entries from several countries and is of outstanding importance.
Golfing facilities are excellent. Among the courses is the well-known Mid-Ocean Golf Course, which is among the first four finest golf courses in the Western Hemisphere. The annual Bermuda Golf Championships are international events. Facilities for the sport of tennis are also excellent with courts of all types found throughout the Islands. The larger hotels have their private courts and there are particularly good courts at the Tennis Stadium in Pembroke. The Annual Bermuda ( hampionships Tournament held under the auspices of the Bermuda Lawn Tennis Club draws outstanding players from abroad. Bermuda Swimming Week which takes place in September each year also draws contestants from abroad. Water polo is popular.
One of the Colony’s most popular events is the series of “College Weeks in Bermuda” which run from March to April. They draw some 4,000 American and Canadian prep school and college students on spring vacations for a varied program of entertainment and sport including a week called “College Days at the Beach” during which a Miss College Day Queen is chosen.
The waters surrounding Bermuda abound in hundreds of varieties of game fish. Shore, reef or deep sea fishing for pompano, bonefish, club snapper, mackerel, tuna, wahoo and marlin to name but a few has made Bermuda a fast growing fishing vacation resort. There is an annual Fall and Winter Fishing Tournament which runs from November through March for which no entry fee or license is required. Hundreds of visitors also visit the coral forma tions and view the undersea sights near the Islands.
The atmosphere in Bermuda is a combination of “Bermudian” and British, while their proximity to Canada and the United States has made residents assimilate some of the characteristics of the latter two peoples. The combination is extremely pleasant, and is one of the many reasons why Bermuda is such a popular place with Americans, Canadians and Europeans alike. Relaxation is the keynote of life in Bermuda. There is also a general resistance to» change. Bermudians cling tenaciously to ancestral customs and there are many habits that have outlived even their original meaning. During your trip to Bermuda maybe you will be able to find out why Cassava pie is always served at Christmas, and why Bermudians reserve Good Friday for kite flying. Even the most ancient of the population cannot answer these questions but they are customs and there is no idea of abandoning them. Make this your next fun vacation project!!