BY FLYING CUPPER TO
BAHAMAS-BERMUDA	Page 11
The scenes depicted can serve as background material for map study, map drawing, and for drawing of travel posters. The Teachers’ Manual presents many pupil activities and follow-up projects for research study.
Recordings
Talbot Brothers of Bermuda — Produced by Audio Fidelity, 2 — 10 in. and 1 — 12 in. 33-1/3 long playing records, available from Doubleday, 52nd St. and Fifth Ave., New York City. These records include the favorite selections of the Talbot Brothers of Bermuda, most celebrated calypso players in the world. Among the instruments they accompany themselves with, are an accordion, electric guitar, maracas, banjo drums and a one string fishing line bass. These records reproduce a typical performance at an informal recording party in Bermuda.
THE BAHAMAS — NASSAU
Motion Pictures
HOLIDAY IN NASSAU - 30 min. sd. color — Ideal Pictures, 233 W. 42nd St., New York City.
Produced for Pan-American World Airways, this film portrays life of the people in the Bahamas, many of whom still retain their British customs, traditions and way of life. The many attractions for the tourists are stressed — Cat Cay and Bimini, riding in glass bottom boats, shopping in the gay market places, and dancing to Calypso music.
FROM THE BAHAMAS TO JAMAICA -15 min. silent B&W — Encyclopedia Brit-tanica Films, Inc. Wilmette, 111.
This film includes scenes in Nassau — harbor, street scenes, sponge lishing, sorting and shipping sponges.
TREASURE OF THE BAHAMAS - 27 min. sound (color and B&W) — Nassau Development Board, 620 Fifth Ave., New York City.
Two youngsters, in search of adventure, seek out the local story teller of the Nassau harbor. After hearing his story of pirate treasure they sail to a remote island to find some for themselves. Digging for gold, even with the aid of their dog, they are left empty-handed and, something even worse, empty-stomached: So they seek a live treasure underwater — lobster. And, again aided by their dog, they spearfish for the crayfish, return to Nassau’s native fishmarket with their catch to receive their reward.
OUT OF THE SEA - 13 min. sound, (color & B&W) — Nassau Development Board, 620 Fifth Ave., New York City. Produced by Victor Kayfetz Productions, Inc.
After a brief introduction during which we see some of the varied and colorful uses to which sea shells can be put, we move out to one of the lovely stretches of a Bahama beach. This is where the shells are first washed up by the constant tides and where they are collected along the shore by little children and in deeper waters by native divers with masks. From the outlying beaches the shells are taken
into Nassau for cleaning, dying, and the numerous other processes that prepare them for shipment all over the world and their fabrication into such diverse articles as household furniture, casual wear for women, decorations, jewelry, and so forth. Native women show how to make shell “flowers” and jewelry.
RENDEZVOUS IN THE REEF - 30 minutes, sound, color. Available from: Miss Julie Fee, Esso Standard Oil Company, Hutchinson River Parkway, Pelham 65, New York.
To film “Rendezvous,” Wes and Connie Mueller spent 2,000 hours under the sea in the crystal-clear waters of the Bahama Reefs! They actually make friends . . . and have fantastic shots to prove it . . . with such notorious denizens of the deep as sharks, barracuda, and the vicious Moray Eel. This unique film was narrated by the Muellers themselves.
ISLAND ODDITIES — 30 minutes, sound, color. Available from: Miss Julie Fee, lisso Standard Oil Company, Hutchinson River Parkway, Pelham 65, New York. This film describes the adventures of Connie and Wes Mueller who are seagoing photographers. They sail to the remote “uninhabited” shores of the Bahama Islands . . . and find them teeming with birds and strange sea-and-shore “inhabitants” of every description! How they studied and photographed these fascinating creatures makes an absorbing story. . . .
Recordings:
Religious Sougs and Drums in the Bahamas — 12" long playing record, Folkways Records, 117 West 46th Street, New York City. These albums, recorded in Nassau,
the Bahamas, by Marshall Stearns present the indigenous secular and religious music of these West Indian Islands. The albums are accompanied by detailed background notes and song texts. The recordings present diverse streams of music in the Bahamas showing many influences such as the African tradition; there are also elements of English, French and Spanish music all dominated by syncopated rhythm and fervent melody. The instruments include guitar, fiddles, horns, etc. The vocals are by native groups.
Calypso and Native Bahama Rhythms — Produced by Art, 2 long playing 33-1/3 records, available from Doubleday, 5th Ave. and 52nd St., New York City. These records, sung by George Symonette, Bahamian Troubadour — Mr. Calypso — recreate the spirit and atmosphere of Nassau. In the Bahamas, as in most of the Caribbean area, a lyrical account of current events, produced with the acent and rhythm of the native, becomes a Calypso — the tropical version of the folksong. These records include most of the well-known songs of the Bahamas, and among them is the so-called national anthem, “Peas and Rice”.
Blind Blake — Produced by Art, 3 long playing 33-1/3 records available from Doubleday, 5th Ave., and 52nd St., New York City. Blind Blake leads one of the best known calypso groups in Nassau. In his playing which is outstanding, we note a blending of folksongs, calypso, and early jazz. To quote the Saturday Review, “Blake’s outfit reeks of Caribbean sunlight, moonlight and good nature.” These records include all the best known songs of that region, sung with the tenderness of those who will be gay, no matter what happens.
From this man-made canyon in the heart of Nassau, the Queen's Staircase leads to ancient Fort Fincastle, on a height overlooking the picturesque town. The chasm was quarried by slave labor many years ago. Probably the stone taken from the canyon was used in building some of Nassau's earliest forts.