BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
BAHAMAS-BERMUDA_______________Pages
THE BAHAMA ISLANDS
You don’t have to go too far away from home to find another place which is both different and pleasant, in other words — the Bahamas, just a few flying hours from the United States.
Here is a place for a modern Homer. The ancient Homer must have gotten the idea for his Odyssey from knowing the many islands and islets of the Aegean Sea, for Ulysses was simply an island hopper of the Greek variety. If the blind poet were alive today, he would be writing his adventures by airplane for Pan American, for the airplane has brought within our ken the whole mighty treasures of the Bahama Islands.
There are 70,000 square miles of water and land in the Bahamas, including some 700 islands and 2400 cays, the land surface of which is more than 4,000 square miles. With the exception of a few low ranges of hills, the islands are uniformly flat, the westernmost of them being about fifty miles off the Florida coast.
In the Bahamas you get the sun; you lie in the good sun. The Egyptian Pharaoh who got into the history books by being the first to command the worship of a single god had the right idea when he picked out the sun for the One God. Robinson Crusoe had the right idea too: when he picked the latitude and longitude for his island, to get lost on, he fixed it almost exactly on the location of the Bahamas, according to some authorities.
There is a streak of Ulysses somewhere in every American — he desires to travel, not to get a rest or be entertained, but to discover something, to find out if the place he visits — in this case it may be any island of the Bahamas — may turn out to be the Paradisal one. In the Bahamas one may explore the increasingly-popular Out Islands, including San Salvador, where Columbus first set foot in the New World; Bimini, the fisherman’s haven; and Abaco, which was first settled by Loyalists from New York City in 1783. Andros, the largest island in the Bahamas, is easily reached by air. Andros gives the hunter a chance to test his eye during the season of the plentiful Bahama pintails, southern mallards, diving ducks and other waterfowl. Andros Reef, which separates the island’s glittering beaches from the Tongue of the Ocean, still offers a fine area for skin-divers and shell-collectors. A traveler may visit as a curiosity the sisal plantation once managed by Neville Chamberlain, the former British Prime Minister.
To the others, the visitors who want only a short ride in a glass-bottomed boat and a day of swimming, the gracefully-curved Paradise Beach on Hog Island is a fine spot. One of the new attractions there is the new Aquarium. More than a hundred tanks offer an almost complete collection of Bahamian marine life, including such exotic specimens as the Queen Angel, the Rock Beauty, the Turbot, and the Butterfly Fish.
By Enrique Portes
Another attraction in the main island worth exploring is the longest of the three old British forts still standing, Fort Charlotte. It is a fine experience to go through the eleven rooms of the structure, all of which was carved out of solid rock in 1787-89 to resist possible American invasion. From its ramparts one gets a rewarding view of the western approaches to the harbor. For a loftier vantage point one may ascend to 216-foot watertower, reached by climbing the sixty steps of the Queen’s Staircase, also hewn out of the solid rock. The Ardastra Gardens, with its tropical gardens and birds and its flamingoes that march in military formation, and the St. Augustine’s Monastery, built ten years ago by Benedictine fathers, attract many visitors.
In the Bahamas the legendary and the historic meet. Ponce de Leon, fresh from the coriquest of Puerto Rico, sailed the seas in quest of the Fountain of Youth. A fountain with healing powers, according to tradition, exists in the isle of south Bimini.
Other aspects of the Bahamas
Due to the shallowness of soil over the soft limestone formation of the islands, agricultural production is limited. There is, however, considerable cultivation, primarily for local consumption, of tropical fruits, pineapples, coconuts, and vegetables. Baskets, hats, mats, and other small articles of sisal or coconut straw are made by the native population and sold to tourists in the markets and shops, along with ornaments of seashells, turtle shells, and fish scales. Limited quantities of tomatoes, salt,
crawfish, fruits, and shellwork (tortoise and conch) are exported. The Bahamas import chiefly food stuffs and manufactured goods. The tourist industry is, of course, the most important item.
The Government consists of a Governor appointed by the Crown, a Legislative Council nominated by the Crown, and the House of Assembly composed of elected members. An Executive Council advises the Governor.
Old world formality is maintained in official procedures: justices, barristers and other officials wear gowns and wigs, and members of the Assembly appear in formal dress. The Duke of Windsor served as Governor in 1940-45.
The Bahamas have good schools and newspapers.
NASSAU
Nassau, capital and seat of government of the Bahamas, was the Charles Towne of pirate days. It is situated on the island of New Providence. This island derives its name from the providencial escape from death of an English navigator, shipwrecked upon its shores.
Roughly speaking only a quarter of the inhabitants of the Bahamas dwell at Nassau, but it is equally true that the vast majority of travelers to the Bahamas never venture beyond the confines of Nassau’s island of New Providence.
Nassau abounds of course in shops tempting the American devotee of things British, with a lavish display of English tweeds, Burberrys, Fownes gloves, Kent brushes, liquors, Yardley’s soaps and perfumes.
NASSAU, Bahamas — Forts will always be an important attraction for sightseers visiting historic Nassau. Fort Fincastle, located almost at the center of the city, is only a monument today, but once it stood guard defending this capita! city of the Bahamas. The spectator's platform atop the tower provides an unsurpassed view of the city and harbor and is one of the most oft visited spots on tourist agendas.