Page 12
BIBLIOGRAPHY FOR BERMUDA AND THE BAHAMAS
Bermuda In Story and Pictures — Henry — Whitman
Bermuda in Three Colors — Wells — McBride
Rider’s Bermuda — Rider — Holt Bermuda Journey — Zuill — Coward-McCann
Story of Bermuda — Strode — Harcourt Brace
Bermudiana — Williams — Rinehart Blue Treasure — Girvan — American News Island Holiday — Wright — Lippincott
Children of the Sea — Bronson — Harcourt Brace
Let’s Go to the West Indies — Seaton — Prentice Hall
Caribbean Cocktail — Young, Helweg-Lar-sen — Melrose
Bride of a Thousand Cedars — Lancaster — Brentano
Ports of the Sun — Early — Houghton Mifflin
.Lands of the Inner Sea — Roberts — Coward-McCann
Pocket Guide to the West Indies — Aspin-wall — Brentano
Caribbean Lands — Carpenter — American Mexico, Central America and West Indies — Quinn — Lippincott
Lands of Delight — Early — Houghton Mifflin
The Bahamas — Henry — Whitman Song Source Material — Wright & Lossing — Columbia
Magazine Articles
Yachting, February 1956, December 1956 Design, March 1955 Saturday Review, April 23, 1955 Vogue, September 1, 1955 Newsweek, September 17, 1956 Science, June 8, 1956
House and Gardens, May 1956, January 1956 Dance, May 1956 Coronet, September 1955 Look, May 31, 1955
For Further Information
Nassau, Bahamas Development Board Bay Street, Nassau
Bermuda Government Information Office 620 Fifth avenue NYC
Bermuda Information Bureau 1472 Broadway NYC
Bermuda Information Center 220 W. 42 street NYC
Bermuda Trade Development Board 620 Fifth avenue NYC
Bahamas Development Board 620 Fifth avenue NYC
Nassau Bahamas Information Bureau 620 Fifth avenue NYC
World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
NASSAU AND THE BAHAMAS
LOCATION . . . Scattered over more than 70,000 square miles of sea, the Bahamas are composed of nearly 700 islands and about 2,400 cays. The islands extend from a point about 50 miles east of Miami to the north of Haiti in a 760-mile arc stretching in a southeasterly direction. Important islands and cays include New Providence, site of Nassau, Abaco, Andros, the Biminis, Berry Islands, Eleuthera, Exuma, Grand Bahama, Harbor Island, San Salvador, Spanish Wells, Walker’s Cay and Green Turtle Cay.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The Bahamas form a chain of beautiful semi-tropical islands that have a charming atmosphere and some of the finest beaches and sea bathing anywhere. Nassau, the most sophisticated and modern of the resorts in the Bahamas, is quaintly British, decorous and utterly lovely. Spend your days basking in the world-famous Paradise Beach. Spend the evening dancing under the Bahamian moon on the terrace of one of Nassau’s famed resort hotels, later making the rounds of the native night clubs and cabarets. Nassau offers its visitors a royal welcome and goes all out to make them comfortable.
POPULATION . . . Estimated at about 83,000, with Nassau and New Providence Island totaling about half that figure.
SIZE . . . The total land area of the group is approximately 4,466 square miles, about half the area of Massachusetts.
CAPITAL . . . Nassau, on the island of New Providence, which is 21 miles long and 7 miles wide at its widest point; population about 45,000.
GOVERNMENT . . . The Government of the Bahamas is a system analogous to Great Britain (not a Crown Colony). Since 1718, the Governor has been appointed by the British Crown.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, Nassau is only 3>Vt. hours from New York; 55 minutes flying time from Miami. By ship, overnight from Miami, 2 Vi days from New York.
BERMUDA
LOCATION . . . Approximately 670 miles southeast of New York, with the Gulf Stream running between Bermuda and the United States.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Bermuda is a place for tourists to enjoy bicycling, tennis, golf, swimming, sailing, fishing and relaxing in an atmosphere of semi-tropical beauty. While one can dance after dinner at some of the hotels, there is no night-club life.
POPULATION . . . 37,254, according to the 1950 census, of which approximately 13,500 are white and 23,500 are colored.
SIZE . . . The total area of the more than 150 islands which make up “Bermuda” is about 22 square miles.
CAPITAL . . . Hamilton.
GOVERNMENT . . . The Government of Bermuda is a system analogous to that of Great Britain. Since 1685, the Governor has been appointed by the British Crown to represent the Queen. It is a misnomer, however, to speak of Bermuda as a Crown colony. Politically, these islands hold a unique place among the possessions of the Crown. Bermuda has its own elected House of Assembly and a Legislative Council, and is officially designated as the “British Colony of Bermuda.”
HOW TO GET THERE ... by Pan American Clipper, flying time from New York, approximately 3 hours. By ship from New York: 40 hours.
The i?iformation presented above is from the PAA travel guide book “New Horizons,” now available in a fully revised new edition, zuith hard cover, published for PAA at $1.00 by Simon and Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.