World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 6
of commerce for Bermuda ships running the Union blockade. Blockade running became so profitable that merchants in Bermuda had no time to count their money during the day and simply threw it on the floor behind the counter, later sweeping fortunes in gold coins in piles and stowing them still uncounted in barrels in their basements.
Gradually commerce in salt and contraband gave way to commerce in vegetables. Bermuda onions became famous in many parts of the United States and over-production of carrots, cabbage, celery, beets, potatoes and tomatoes were shipped in considerable quantities to Canada and the West Indies. Eventually however, this commerce too dropped drastically. Texas began to grow Bermuda onions and the lack of shipping facilities during World War II also cut export trade. In addition, improved refrigeration techniques made it possible for buyers as well as sellers to store vegetables and most of these commodities are now being conserved for local consumption. Milk and egg production in Bermuda is also for local consumption. There are no established commercial fisheries, but individual fishermen deliver to local markets approximately 500,000 pounds of fish and from 5,000 to 8,000 lobsters annually.
The Bermuda Easter Lily is at present about the only agricultural commodity exported. The production of the bulbs is a flourishing industry, and these continue to be in great demand in the United States, and Canada. A by-product of the industry, cut flowers for the Easter Season, is of importance and has shown an increase since the availability of adequate air express service.
With the decline in agricultural exports Bermuda turned to tourism. Ships bringing tourists to Bermuda increased in numbers and wealthy Americans soon made it fashionable to spend a vacation in the
Colony. Their yachts began to be as common as fishing boats in the Great Sound. With the growth of tourism to Bermuda came the Air Age in 1937. Pan American World Airways was one of the first to recognize the potentials of tourist travel to the Islands and began flying-boat service in that year. By the mid-forties Kindley Field had been constructed and airlines began to arrive after World War II in ever increasing numbers. Travelers can fly to Bermuda swiftly by plane from the United States, Canada, the West Indies, South America and the United Kingdom. In contrast to the forty-hour boat trip between New York and the Islands, Pan American World Airways schedules daily three hour flights, in addition to twice weekly flights between Boston and Bermuda.
Bermuda shops have become famous for their wide range of the finest in British, European and American products. British luxury goods are in great demand by visitors and favorable customs tariffs make it profitable to shop on the Islands. Sterling is the legal tender and the Bermuda Government issues its own bank notes in five shilling, ten shilling, one pound and five pound denominations. In view of the importance of the tourist trade to the economy of Bermuda, and the large percentage of that trade which comes from Canada and the United States, both Canadian and United States currencies are readily accepted.
Gradually, as tourism increased, the Colony’s economy became closely geared to this “industry” until today Bermuda is almost wholly dependent upon it. Actually tourism accounts for over 85% of the total income of the Islands. There are only two local industries — a perfume factory and a television movie studio. There are also a few small boat building yards and cabinet work and handicraft production in native cedar wood is carried on. But it is mainly the tourist who contributes the
money which goes to feed, clothe and house Bermudians. In 1954, for example, the tourist business was worth approximately $24,000,000 to these resort isles. This meant a per capita intake of almost $600.
Because of a relatively high per capita income which is unhampered by income or inheritance taxes, Bermuda’s 40,000 people of which about two-thirds are colored, enjoy a high standard of living. Slum conditions are almost unknown. As the Islands were uninhabited when discovered there are no “natives”. The colored population are mainly descendents of former slaves and of imported West Indian labor. Among the slaves were African negroes and North American Indians.
There are also about 4,000 Portuguese in Bermuda, most of them from the Azores, who were brought over some years ago to farm and have since become amalgamated into the population. Portuguese in Bermuda are excellent farmers and gardeners and account for most of the Island’s vegetables and flowers. In addition, there are a few Orientals who run specialty shops and restaurants; some Americans, mostly part-time residents and servicemen at the U.S. Air Force and Navy Bases, and a few hundred Englishmen.
Immigration laws are strict however, for there is just so much space and the present population is growing rapidly. Non-resident Bermudians are allowed to hold positions only on consent of the Board of Immigration; they can go into business only if a Bermudian consents to go in with them and they can own only a small percentage of the total land available. There are very few under-currents of social unrest in Bermuda for the whole population realizes all too vividly that any upheaval in the mores would reflect almost immediately upon the tourist business and the Colony’s economy would disintegrate in the process, leaving a ghost resort where once stood a flourishing country.
Bermudians call their climate “nature-conditioned”. That is, the warm waters of the Gulf Stream flowing to the north of the Islands keep away frigid temperatures and hundreds of miles of sea around the Bermuda ward off excessive heat and cool the breezes. Frost and snow are unheard of and flowers grow the year round — fields of stately Easter Lilies, hedges of leander and hibiscus, flaming poinsettia trees, scarlet cordia, royal poincianas and many more. The majority of Bermuda homes are made from limestone blocks carved from hillsides by workmen using time-honored methods. These blocks, some more than a foot thick, provide sturdy foundations and gaily colored sides. Carved into thinner slabs, they go to make the all important roofs which, when cemented and whitewashed serve as catchments to funnel precious rain water into tanks that are generally dug under the house. Bermuda depends almost entirely on rain for its fresh water since there are no streams and few wells there.
There is no rainy season in Bermuda as rainfall is distributed fairly evenly throughout the year. In the past 23 years only five hurricanes, passing northward, have brought winds of hurricane force to the Islands.