Page T-2
Pax Amer/cax
World Airways
C~n
Pah Amoucak	«
World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1957, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
WARDROBE GUIDE FOR EUROPE
Spring and Summer, 1957
Wondering what clothes to take for your vacation in Europe this spring or summer?
Thousands of women will be asking themselves this question shortly as they start to plan a trip to Europe. Pan American World Airways has estimated that more than 700,000 Americans will be traveling across the Atlantic. A large portion of the total will be women; including wives accompanying husbands on business or vacation trips as well as professional or business gals who are holiday bound.
Jane Kilbourne, fashion advisor for Pan American, comes up with the answers. Her first edict is to “travel light.” Fashion designers had the woman traveler in mind
Michele Mallary, 13 year old daughter of Los Angeles artist and Professor Robert Mallary and Mrs. Mallary, waves from the steps of a Pan American World Airways Clipper at New York International Airport before taking off for Barcelona, Spain. Before entering school there, Michele will receive instructions from her maternal grandmother, Mrs. James E. Handrahan, noted educator, who at 75 is studying at the University of Barcelona. Grandma Handrahan taught her six children, including Michele's mother, at home in the U.S.A. using her own original system and telescoped five grammar grades into one year of study.
when they introduced their 1957 spring and summer collections recently, for many of the new dresses (sheaths with their own matching jackets) are designed for doubleduty wear thus eliminating the necessity for buying a large wardrobe. The baggage allowance for Pan American’s “Rainbow” or tourist flights is 44 pounds; 66 pounds for first-class or “President” service.
In connection with her own travels, Miss Kilbourne has found the 44-pound allowance is plenty for a well-rounded wardrobe, adequate for a two-week holiday in Europe, if well planned around a basic neutral color scheme. By including separates to mix and match along with colorful accessories the traveler can carry with her a surprising variety of costumes. Nylon and orlon lingerie items are always a “must” for they don’t add to one’s luggage weight or bulk.
Miss Kilbourne suggests the following sample wardrobe to be contained in luggage well under the 44-pound weight limit.
1	silk-tweed suit or cotton-tweed mixture to wear aboard the Clipper
2	double-duty dresses with matching or contrasting jackets or sweaters in wool or silk for daytime sightseeing. Remove the jackets for the cocktail hour.
1	basic wool dress (for cool countries — Great Britain or Scandinavia)
2	cocktail dresses for after-five
2 blouses, silk or dacron
2 daytime wool skirts for mix matching
2	evening skirts, one long for gala events at hotels or diplomatic functions; one short for restaurant dining
3	sweaters — 1 jeweled for evening wear; 2 cashmere or orlon for daytime
1 formal gown, preferably short
1 wool topcoat, long or y4 length — or short fur for cool evenings
1	raincoat, especially for Great Britain
3	pairs shoes, including walking for sightseeing, daytime town pumps (can be worn aboard Clipper with travel suit), dressy sandals for evening or cocktail wear.
2	nylon nightgowns with matching opaque negligees
1	pair folding bedroom slippers
2	nylon slips — one white, one black
1	half slip
2	foundation garments — 1 all-in-one for evening wear; 1 extra for daytime wear
6 pairs matching nylon stockings
1	dozen hankies — 6 colored, 6 white
2	or 3 scarves for variety of color. Can be used as head coverings while walk-in the country.
Hats can be either the packable kind of ribbon, or crocheted. For dressy wear and to save space, take a couple of flowers and some veiling which can be arranged in any number of ways whenever you need a head covering.
2 pairs of gloves in white nylon or dacron Shower cap, sun glasses, medications, toothpaste, toothbrush, etc.
Take cosmetics in small-size plastic jars which are flexible and won’t break in flight. Most cosmetics and cleansing tissues are now available in Europe although more expensive than they are in this country. Same for soap.
Include one or two brightly colored fold-over evening bags which will add color
variety to your wardrobe and are easy to pack.
Carry your costume jewelry in a small cosmetic purse or bag. You can tuck it in the back of your suitcase and keep all your jewelry in one place.
One large “tote” bag, big enough to carry the usual contents of your handbag, plus your tickets, passport and other papers needed while traveling.
The above suggested wardrobe Miss Kilbourne has found will be easily packed into a 29-inch suitcase for dresses and shoes, a 19-inch case for lingerie and a matching cosmetic case. And, of course, your Pan American flight bag is a “must” for carrying that book to read while aloft, a fresh blouse, tissues and cosmetics to use while en route. Luggage manufacturers are working hand-in-hand with fashion designers. You will find light-weight, strong attractive luggage, smartly styled and reasonably priced in all leading department stores throughout the country.
As a further aid in what to take on your spring and summer trip to Europe, Pan American has prepared this summary of what can be worn in various countries:
NORTHERN EUROPE: (Great Britain, Scandinavia) Average June through September temperature is about 58 degrees. Sweaters, skirts for country sightseeing. Suits, blouses, one-piece sheath with matching jacket or sweater for daytime wear. Evening sweater, short skirt or cocktail-type dress for after-five. Long skirt to wear at hotel galas, concerts or diplomatic functions. Be sure to take along your raincoat and heavy walking shoes. And your wool topcoat or fur stole.
CENTRAL EUROPE: (France, Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, northern Italy) Average temperature June-September is 63 degrees. Suits for daytime wear, dark one-piece dresses with matching jackets for sightseeing in city. No white shoes, please. For Paris, take dark city-type cottons, smartly cut, the same as you’d wear in any large American city in the summertime. Include your prettiest after-five frocks with matching stoles or jeweled sweaters for cool evenings. Take a raincoat for sudden summer showers. Dark silks or prints for dinner wear in Belgium, Holland, Germany, Austria or Switzerland. Formal clothes in these countries are hardly ever worn in summer. If you’re visiting Belgium’s smart seaside resort at Ostend you will want to take a couple of swim suits and resort-type cottons.
SOUTHERN EUROPE: (Southern France, Portugal, Spain, southern Italy, Turkey, Greece) Average temperature June through September is 73 degrees. For the French and Italian Riviera areas, take your smartest swim togs and beach clothes with after-five-type cottons with jeweled sweaters or matching stoles for cool evenings. No slacks for city streets, please. For cities in Portugal, Spain, Turkey and Greece wear conservative daytime street clothes: silk-tweed or cotton-tweed suits, double-duty sheaths or dark cotton. Long evening clothes are not necessary in these countries in the summer.