BY FLYING CUPPER TO
BAHAMAS-BERMUPA	Page 9
on rainfall for water; extinct volcanoes; varieties of fish; coral island.
In the Bahamas — cays and reefs; flamingos, parrots, wild ducks, pigeons, wild hogs, iguana; formed from limestone; built by sea winds; sponges; large turtles, mangrove trees.
4.	Art: in Bermuda, St. Peters and old structures; Somers Gardens; Bermuda Cathedral.
5.	Health: cars arc limited, therefore there is much walking and bicycle riding; rainwater for drinking and washing; cleanliness abounds; no slums. Conch chowder and turtle soup are popular in the Bahamas; Bermuda introduced tennis to the U.S.; yachting most popular sport, many regattas held; horse racing, golf and tennis tournaments, deep sea fishing are some of the sports; healthy climate, no rainy season; beautiful beaches; bathing popular all year round.
G. Mathematics; difference in time, one hour; unit of money; number of islands; 3 hours from New York by plane, 40 hours by ship; graphs showing how income from tourist industry supports the islands, comparison graphs of other industries.
B.	Skills: work on an ability to use new and
different words to make descriptions
sound interesting and colorful.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An interest in life on a small island as compared to life in a large city.
2.	A realization of how the airplane has changed the life and economy of these islands.
3.	A realization of how industries change as goods are able to be transported, or, as other places are able to produce in greater quantities.
4.	An interest in their exciting history.
5.	An understanding of the fact that each part of the world, no matter how small, has something to contribute to the rest of the world.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A. Things to do:
1.	Gather pictures because much of the information will be obtained from these.
2.	Write for travel folders and other information and start a travel bureau.
3.	Plan trips, giving definite places of interest to visit.
4.	Collect pictures and samples of the many flowers, fish and birds found on these islands.
5.	Start a small aquarium.
G. Eollow the news events and keep an account of the important meetings.
7.	Have a display of pictures painted by children in the class.
8.	Invite people who have visited Bermuda and the Bahamas to speak to your class.
9.	Make a “movie” of a carriage trip around the islands, showing the places of interest, the beautiful gardens, etc.
10.	Use the visual aids listed in this
11.	Write original advertisements to interest people in visiting the islands.
12.	Make a collection of magazine articles on these islands.
B. Culmination: The best culmination
would probably be a sharing with other
classes of all you had made and learned.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Magazine articles.
2.	Personnel.
3.	Travel folders.
4.	Pictures.
5.	Movies and strip films.
6.	Books.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS: An interest might be developed in studying other islands in the same area or other islands belonging to Great Britain.
LET'S REVIEW:
BERMUDA
I.	General Questions:
1.	What is the total land area of the Island of Bermuda?
2.	How high is the highest point above sea level?
3.	Who discovered the islands of Bermuda?
4.	How did they get the name “Devil’s Isles”?
5.	Who was Sir George Somers?
6.	What part did Bermuda play in the Revolutionary War? In the Civil War?
7.	What is the chief industry?
8.	How long does it take to fly to Bermuda?
9.	For what part of Bermuda’s total income does tourism account?
10.	What are the two local industries?
11.	What waters help to keep the temperature “nature-conditioned”?
12.	What does Bermuda depend on for its water supply?
13.	What makes Somers Garden so interesting?
14.	Who was W. B. Perot?
15.	Name 5 kinds of fish which might be found in the waters near Bermuda.
THE BAHAMAS
1.	On what island did Columbus first land?
2.	On what island is the capital situated?
3.	What street is Nassau’s chief thoroughfare?
4.	Who was Captain Woodes Rogers?
5.	What has “Blackbeard” to do with the history of the Bahamas?
G. Name two of the most important prod-ducts from the Bahamas?
7.	From what bark is a tonic made?
8.	Which is the westernmost island of the Bahamas?
9.	What English sailor named the Island of New Providence?
10.	Which are the “out islands”?
11.	What did Ponce de Leon have to do with the Bahamas?
12.	How is the name of Sir Robert Heath connected with the island history?
II.	DISCUSSION QUESTIONS
1.	Why has the geographic position of Bermuda played so strange and fascinating a role?
2.	How did the small island of Bermuda gain a reputation as a seafaring nation?
3.	Discuss the pros and cons of Bermuda’s immigration and business laws.
4.	Trace the change of industries and products on the island.
5.	Can these islands remain economically secure while they are dependent on one industry?
III.	FILL IN THE BLANKS
1.	The most northerly coral islands in the
the world are ...............
2.	Bermuda was discovered by...........
3.	The..................... company was
given the responsibility for colonizing the Bermudas.
4.	Administration of the islands is in the
hands of a..........................
issue
St. George, Bermuda. St. Peter's Church (St. George Parish)