Paw American
World Airways Teacher	t-3
This group of school administrators and Board of Education members came the long — and pleasant — way to get to Atlantic City for the convention of the American Association of School Administrators. Under the leadership of Dr. J. W. Bratton, Dean of Education Services at Long Beach State College, the group formed into an "Inter-American Education Conference", departed from Los Angeles via the Pan American World Airways affiliated company Compania Mexicana de Aviacon for the flight to Mexico City. They had a four-day visit with educators and sightseeing, then went on to Merida, Yucatan. There they visited the Mayan ruins at Uxmal, and had a tour of Merida City, then continued to Havana for a visit at the University of Havana and other activities. Then the group continued, via Pan American and Eastern Air Lines to Atlantic City for the opening of the convention.
EDUCATIONAL TRAVELERS GET SET FOR BIGGEST SEASON ABROAD
(Continued from page T-l)
salary increments, or for personal enrichment.
Package price for the Reitz tour is $1,679.
The Comparative Education Society, which last year sent a group to Europe, this year is booking a Latin American itinerary which will depart from Miami and pursue its studies and investigations in Venezuela, Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru and Ecuador.
In each country, six to a dozen leading local educators will participate in the program and the list includes Ministers of Education, classroom teachers, college professors, educational administrators and Cultural Affairs Officers from the U. S. embassies.
Gerald H. Read of Kent State University, and Secretary-Treasurer of the Comparative Education Society will lead the tour, package price for which is $865 from Miami, $925 from New York City and $945 from Cleveland.
Air transportation, with its speed and flexibility, has given tremendous impetus to educational travel. More teachers and students find it possible to make educational trips, and they can go farther and learn more.
The most striking result has been the rapid growth of round-the-world educational travel. Adventures for 1957 lists 67 scheduled departures of round-the-world groups, and the take-off dates range from January 3 to November 21.
Titan of round-the-world educational travel is SITA, the Students International Travel Association, which offers eight itineraries with departure dates varying from one to fourteen per itinerary.
Organizers of global expenditions listed in the directory also include Lafayette College, National Education Association and Western Illinois State College.
Round the world tours range in length from 29 to 161 days, with most of them occupying six weeks to two months. Prices (all-inclusive) start at $1998 and go up to $6598.
Europe remains the most popular seeking ground for educational air travelers. The 114 European tours listed in Adventures are offered by Brigham Young University, College of Puget Sound, Don Travel Service, Educational Travel Association, House of Travel, Inc., General Tours, Hofstra College, Lafayette College, Students International Travel Association (SITA), Students Travel Overseas Program (STOP), Transmarine Tours Guild of Student Travel, University Travel Company and Wayne State University.
A European tour of a month’s duration may be had for less than a thousand dollars. The upper limit is about two months, and approximately $2,000. These are “package” prices, including transportation, living arrangements and special group projects, but excluding personal expenses.
New interest is evident in Africa, with tours offered by Lafayette College, SITA
and Texas Christian University for this year, and with other organizers now preparing for 1958.
The Africa tours generally include an itinerary through Europe, at least as an option. Some embrace North Africa only, others offer an opportunity to visit equatorial Africa, the Congo, the east coast of the continent and the Union of South Africa. Shortest tour in 22 days at $1290, and the most elaborate one requires 73 days and costs a minimum of $2998.
The Middle East is represented in Adventures with ten tours, most of which also include some travel through Europe. The organizers are Lafayette, SITA and Texas Christian University. Times and prices range from 21 days and $1337 to 92 davs and $2512.
A variety of tours to Alaska, Canada and Latin America are available, and are listed in Adventures under Western Hemisphere. Organizers include Indiana University, Lafayette, Montclair State Teachers College, National Education Association, Scenery Unlimited Tours and SITA. It is possible to visit Mexico for two weeks and earn 2i/9 semester hours of academic credit for approximately $330, or to go to Mexico, Central America, all the way around South America, including a trip “Round the Horn” for $1999.
Opportunities in the Pacific include educational trips to Hawaii, and others beyond to the South Seas, or the Orient, or even circle trips of the entire Pacific area. The organizers include J. D. Howard, Indiana University, National Education Association,
Margaret O’Connor, Pyle-Roman and SITA.
Briefest and lowest in cost would be a ten-day journey to the four main islands of the Hawaii group at $500. A Pacific circle tour including Hawaii, Figi, optional trip to Tahiti, New Zealand, Australia, Manila, Hong Kong and Japan, with optional return via Alaska or via Hawaii is listed at $2598.
Educational tours as a rule are booked on the fare-saving Rainbow Tourist service. The World Wide Plan, which permits payment of 10 per cent down and the balance in installments for 20 months, may be used. For individually planned trips the year-round 15-day excursion rates are available on certain trips.
Through arrangement with various tour organizers, it is possible to offer free air transportation to anyone who organizes a group of 15 or more persons for travel together, or half fare where the group is from 10 to 14 persons.
Finally, it may be pointed out that the cost of air travel has not risen in pace with with the inflationary spiral. Instances of rate increases could be cited, but the general trend over the brief history of scheduled air transportation has been a lowering of cost, especially noteworthy in the inauguration a few years ago of low cost tourist type air travel. This is to be followed in 1959, according to present plans, by the inauguration of a third fare level, along with the present first class and tourist classes — a class to be known as Thrift Service, at a rate about 20 per cent below the Tourist Class.