4 Alaska
winter stock of food. At this crisis one of the Stikine chiefs came out of his blockhouse fort into an open space midway between the fortified camps ‘and shouted that he wished to speak to the leader of the Sitkas.
When the Sitka chief appeared he said, “My people are hungry. They dare not go to the salmon streams or berry fields for winter supplies, and if this war goes on much longer most of my people will die of hunger. We have fought long enough; let us make peace.” He waited a moment and then added, “You brave Sitka warriors go home, and we will go home, and we will all set out to dry salmon and berries before it is too late.”
The Sitka chief replied, “You may well say let us stop fighting, when you have had the best of it. You have killed ten more of my tribe than we have killed of yours. Give us ten Stikine men to balance our blood-account; then and not till then will we make peace and go home.”
“Very well,” replied the Stikine chief. “You know my rank. You know that I am worth ten common men and more. Take me and make peace.” The chief stepped forward and was shot down, and peace was thus established.
The Eskimos are there
Somehow when we think of Alaska the Eskimo comes almost always to our minds. This group of aborigines is the most remarkable in the northern regions. Although the Eskimos are of Asian origin, many ethnologists prefer not to refer to them as “Indians” but as a group apart. Without getting too involved in this problem, let us think only of how they overcame great obstacles in order to make their living in those isolated regions.
First, how was the Eskimo able to travel effectively? To do so, he invented the toboggan and the sled to carry his loads over the deep snow. Later he learned to make the sled more efficient by breeding large dogs to draw it. For travel on slippery ice he used ice creepers. To prevent snow blindness, visors were used, and goggles were carved from ivory and wood, with narrow slits to cut down the pitiless reflected light of the sun on the limitless snowfields. To shelter himself in a region of extreme cold and freezing blizzards, in areas without wood or stone, he invented the snowhouse. How did he heat it? Lacking other fuel, he learned to burn, in lamps of pottery or stone, oil derived from the fat of sea mammals. The same flame provided him with light and with heat for cooking.
To hunt on the sea ice in the bitter winter, he had to protect his body from the freezing temperature. So he made fully tailored fur-lined garments of skins, complete with mittens and hoods. To take the wily sea mammals on which his living depended, the Eskimo devised weapons such as the harpoon and the compound recurved and sinew-back bow. He invented many gadgets to improve his basic tools—swivels and buckles for his dog harness and bone and ivory shoes for his sleds. He adapted the products of nature to suit his needs—shoulder blades of walrus for snow shovels, walrus tusks
Pan America/v
Wo mo Airways Tfachpr
BROOKS RIVER CAMP, ALASKA — The fishing in Alaska is as good as anywhere in the world, and better than most. This boy took his big fish from Naknek Lake, which lies in the Katimai National Monument near its western boundary.
for ice picks. Sinew and baleen were used in place of fiber for cordage. From flat pieces of slate he made knives and harpoon points.
As you can see, the Eskimo was resourceful. Many of these devices were adopted in modified form by the Indian tribes adjoining Eskimo territory and some of them spread as far away as the southern Plains.
Has Eskimo life changed considerably? Of course, it has. It began to change by the middle of the 19th century when the agents of great European trading companies penetrated to the farthest reaches of the northern woodlands, establishing posts in search of furs.
The Eskimo and Indian neighbors were ideal trappers. Traders furnished them with guns and steel traps as well as with other modern adjuncts of living. The natives quickly adopted the textile clothing and metal tools and cooking utensils of the white man. Missionaries followed the traders and did to the native’s beliefs and ideas what the trader had done to his material culture.
The Eskimo has adopted the gun. Skin clothing, especially in summer, has been replaced by European-style garments of cloth. With his native mechanical genius, the Eskimo has adopted the gasoline motor to propel his boats, and the phonograph has become as important to the igloo as was formerly the blubber lamp. Records have now become one of the important stocks in trade of the traders, and the Eskimo asks for recordings of his favorite crooners with as much selectivity as the teen-age American boy or girl.
He still hunts, but with modern rifles; he still paddles with his old skill on rivers and lakes, but in'factory-made canoes. Eskimo people are catching up with modern ad-' vantages and living.
Alaskans use planes as taxis
In Alaska airplanes are used as trains,
buses, trucks, streetcars, and taxicabs. The cheapest means of traveling long distances is by plane. It is so cheap that even an Eskimo, who owns his own dog team and to whom time is of little value, cannot afford to travel by sledge between, say, Nome and Fairbanks, because lodging fees en route, and the cost of food for himself and his dogs, would amount to several times the price of an airplane ticket. That is why Alaskans probably fly more per capita than any other people in the world. In the interior of Alaska, according to many reports, flying conditions are especially good. Winter is best of all.
Villages rely on “bush” pilots. To bush pilots, a circle or brush on the snow is the signal used by the vast, but sparsely settled, interior, which means that his services are needed. Perhaps the most useful service the airplane has performed in Alaska is in the role of ambulances for remote settlements, and in transporting doctors and nurses to the scenes of distress. Airplanes are now commonplace even in, remote villages. With the lowered cost of operation, and the improvement in flying equipment the plane has become an important factor in reducing the isolation of many an Alaskan village.
Mr. Bruce A. Wilson tells us in one of his articles on Alaska that one morning he took off on a typical bush flight with a pilot. His single-engine Bellanca was crammed with mail, packages, rifles, a keg of nails, a truck tire, a baby’s high chair, a roll of lineoleum, and crates of canned goods. He flew over desolate reaches of tundra, then wild, undulating foothills streaked by snow gullies. At a small mining camp, the pilot eased the Bellanca into a tiny rough clearing fringed by trees. A truck came in to receive the mail. In another village, the inhabitants handed the pilot lists of things they needed, things that the pilot would buy in Fairbanks, and deliver on his next trip.
Weeks Field, on the edge of Fairbanks, for instance, is bordered on one side by a row of busy hangars. Scores of airplanes take off and land daily. There you can see flying sportsmen back from scouting caribou herds, bush planes with Indian passengers ; Navy transports from the Government oil project at Barrow; Pan American Clippers from Seattle, and many others. Thus multi-engined planes, well-equipped with safety devices, connect Fairbanks with Juneau to the southeast, Anchorage to the south, and Nome to the west. In fact, the whole Territory of Alaska is but a relatively few hours from any part of the world.
Bustling little towns
There are many small cities and towns in Alaska. Juneau is the Territory’s bustling little capital with about 7,500 people. The town lies at the water’s edge. Behind it rise the steep, timbered slopes of Mt. Juneau (3,500 ft.) and Mt. Roberts (3,600 ft.). The harbor offers excellent docking facilities for large and small boats. Hundreds of steam and motor vessels have their home port here, and launches maintain regular schedules between the town and the small communities near by. Juneau is an important center for hunting, fishing and guided tours.