Pan Amerrca tv
World Arnmys Teacher
6 Alaska
along the Highway are available at various points. Although open to traffic throughout the year, the condition of the approach road between Edmonton and Dawson Creek is such that it is not advisable to travel during the spring thaw when the road bed is soft.
The Alaska Railroad, which runs from Seward and Whittier, ports on the Kenai Peninsula and Prince William Sound, through Anchorage to Fairbanks a distance of 470.3 miles, was built and is operated by the United States Government. Branches serve the farming and coal mining regions of the Matanuska Valley and the coal mines on the Healy River. Regular passenger and freight service is maintained all year. From Nenana, 412 miles north of Seward, river boats are operated by the railroad on the Tanana and Yukon Rivers during the summer months carrying freight and passengers as far as Marshall 858 miles downstream and 600 miles upstream to Circle. At Anchorage and Fairbanks the railroad connects with the central highway system. Under normal conditions regular steamship service is maintained throughout the year between Seattle and principal ports of Alaska as far north as Seward, where connections are made with the Alaska Railroad for Fairbanks and points en route. Seasonal service is normally maintained into the Bering Sea and Arctic Ocean.
Southeastern Alaska has mild winters, cool summers with heavy rain and the same annual temperature as that of Baltimore and Philadelphia. The south central area has moderate winters and warm summers, with heavy rain on the coast and light rain, and snow inland. Western Alaska is climatically similar to New England. Along the Alaskan Peninsula and Aleutian Islands the winters are stormy but not exceptionally cold and the summers are cool with considerable rain and fog. Interior Alaska is comparable to Montana and the Dakotas with very light rainfall and great extremes in winter and summer temperatures. More rivers and harbors in the United States subject to freezing exist in the States than
from the Aleutians to' southeastern Alaska. The Territory’s proximity to the North Pole is about that of Scotland, Norway, Sweden and Finland.
A large part of the population is concentrated in southeastern Alaska. This area has within its geographical limits, the Capital City of Juneau and several of the other large cities and towns including Ketchikan, Wrangell, Petersburg, Sitka and Skagway. More recently however, there has been a shift in this concentration through the phenomenal wartime growth of Anchorage and Fairbanks. Fairbanks, a decade ago a small mining community numbering 3,000 permanent residents, now has a population estimated at 20,000. Anchorage, the Territory’s largest city, has an estimated population of 40,000 people in comparison to the 4,500 permanent residents it had ten years ago.
Having practically no manufacturing industries, Alaska imports the major portion of all its requirements in both consumer and durable goods. 99% of all imports come from the United States. These are chiefly petroleum, iron and st6el manufactures, motor and other vehicles, wool manufactures, paper manufactures, boards, logs, meat and dairy products, grains, vegetables, fruit, eggs, tobacco and cotton manufactures. Alaska sells to the United States, fish and animal products, gold, silver and other minerals, wood timber and lumber, and furs and fur skins.
Fishing is the chief industry in Alaska, although the construction industry has made deep inroads in its importance as an employer of manpower. It forms the basis of the Territory’s wealth and gives employment to about one-third of the population. The total wholesale value of fishery products prepared for market since Alaska was purchased by the United States passed the two billion dollar mark in 1950. The value of the salmon pack is by far the largest of the industry, ranging from 80 to 100 million dollars each year. At the time Alaska was purchased, little thought was given to its fisheries but
the first salmon cannery was built in the Territory in 1878 and expansion was fairly steady thereafter. Over one hundred canneries equipped with modern machinery capable of large scale production employ many thousands of persons, chiefly along the southern and southeastern coasts of the Territory. Canning of salmon, which represents about 90% of the total value of salmon products of Alaska, is a seasonal industry however, which furnishes employment only during the summer months. Cod, halibut, herring, clams, crabs and shrimp also are fished commercially and constitute an important part of Alaska’s marine resources.
Alaska, since it was purchased by the United States, has yielded more than $900,000,000 in mineral wealth. Mineral resources occur in great variety and are distributed widely. Large areas of the country remain unexplored geologically and may contain workable mineral deposits. Evidence of this has been disclosed by extensive searches for war-needed metals and minerals by the Geological Survey and the Bureau of Mines. Gold first brought Alaska into world prominence and its total production has outranked the output of all other minerals combined. More than two-thirds of the total mineral production through 1948 was gold. The greatest gold production has been from large placer and lode claims operated by corporations at Such places as Juneau, Fairbanks and Nome. Placer mining throughout most of central Alaska is a seasonal occupation in- which employment ceases during the winter.
Substantial amounts of platinum metals, copper, coal and silver also have been produced. Copper produced since 1900 was valued at more than $300,000,000; silver recovered from 1900 was valued at over $15,000,000; and platinum metals produced since 1900 were valued at well over a million dollars. Coal produced in Alaska since 1900 was valued at approximately $30,000,000. It is widely distributed but practically all coal mines now being operated are located along the line of the Alaska Railroad. The larger part of the coal consumed comes from local mines although some tonnage is imported. Efforts are being made to develop these mines still further to meet all needs of the Territory through local production. Quantities of tin, mercury, antimony, asbestos, tungsten, gypsum and lead have been extracted. Other mineral commodities produced include arsenic, chromite, sand, gravel and stone. Although there are no producing oil fields in Alaska at present, results of tests and explorations in several parts of the Territory are encouraging enough to warrant the belief that deposits of oil may occur in sufficient quantities to justify their development. Districts on the southeastern shore of the Alaskan Peninsula and in the area around Katella and Yakatage, southeast of Prince William Sound, have been investigated by the Geological Survey and partly tested by private interests. The Navy Department is conducting extensive tests for oil in “Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4”, an area of 37,000 square miles, north of the Arctic Circle.
SAWYER GLACIER — The photo shows the foot of Sawyer Glacier which is located at Tacey Arm, near Juneau.