Pan Am frìcan
World Airways Teacher
Alaska 7
TOTEM POLE — The Alaska Indians for many years have been recording family history on totem poles. This one is in front of the Indian Meeting House in Totem Village at Mud Bight.
Mining, for many years Alasxa’s second industry, employs about one-sixth of the total working population. Gold, copper and platinum are the chief products at the present time. As Alaska develops and transportation facilities increase more of its minerals will be produced for local processing and consumption and for shipment to the United States. Good results in further mining operations may reasonably be expected but the hazards for the individual prospector without ample financial backing are considered relatively large since the most successful mining has become chiefly a job for large scale scientifically planned operations carried out by well financed and well equipped companies. Of course there are still many opportunities for intelligent individual prospectors or small operators undertaking the search for minerals which, if located, can be easily and profitably disposed of to large enterprises for exploitation.
Forests of Alaska present challenging opportunities for immediate large and small scale development. They occupy about 60% of the Territory’s land area and are composed of extensive stands of white spruce, Alaska birch, cottonwood, black spruce, aspen and larch. Most of the saleable timber has been set aside in national forests under the supervision of the United Statds Forest Service and is sold by the Service under regulations which permit limited use by campers, residents and homesteaders. Timber rights for large scale commercial operations may be acquired on a basis which will maintain a sustained yield indefinitely. Timber cutting under proper management could be increased greatly without jeopardizing the future supply, which it is estimated could average several billion board feet of timber annually. While present timber use is substantial, the lack of commercial development on a really large scale so far is due primarily to poor accessibility of the
timber areas.
During 1954, a new 52 million dollar pulp mill, the first of its kind in Alaska, began operation in Ketchikan. Decreasing pulp-wood supplies throughout the world indicate that a substantial development of the newsprint industry is possible in the near future. Public law permits private individuals ^nd industries to establish wood products, high grade pulp and newsprint paper industries in the Tangas National Forest in the southeastern section. This region also has potential water power sites available to furnish cheap electric power. The logging season extends almost throughout the year and there is full year round water transportation for logs from woods to mill and for the finished product from mill to market. The greater part of the timber is within 2j/2 miles of ice free tidewater. Plant sites are available. Postwar construction in both Alaska and the States demands an ever increasing amount of lumber for new roads and buildings. In addition, plywood, veneer plants and plants to produce raw material for the rayon industry and such other wood products as furniture, woodenware, barrels, boats, toys, shingles and small novelty items also could be produced in Alaska.
Although Alaskan farm land under cultivation has been increasing, Alaskan agriculture has been unable to keep pace with the demand for farm products since 1932. Imports of agricultural products from the States have been rising almost steadily since that date. An estimated 12,000 acres are cultivated and land is being cleared at the rate of about 1,000 acres per year. However, at present, 85% of the agricultural products needed are imported from the United States. Exploratory investigations reveal that Alaska is capable of producing 80% to 90% of its own requirements of agricultural products. Economically, this level of production is not feasible now due to seasonal production, internal transportation problems, inability to store crops, small market centers and distances from consumers.
Despite large quantities of agricultural imports there is a steady demand for local production of a wide range of agricultural products such as dairy products, meats, vegetables, eggs, grains, fertilizers and wood products. Oats and peas take the place of corn for silage and are used for hay in feeding livestock instead of alfalfa. Cattle feed is also imported from the United States. Almost all kinds of hardy vegetables and berries and some grains can be raised in Alaska. Potatoes are a standard crop and grow well. Only a few crops such as tomatoes, corn and fruit trees will not mature. The growing season averages 140 days along the southeastern coast, 120 days on the central Pacific coast and 80 to 90 days in northern valleys. The unusual length of the summer day compensates somewhat for the shortness of the growing season in the north. Dairying is one of the principal farm activities in the Matanuska Valley north of Anchorage and other successful dairies are operating in the Fairbanks area and adjoining most of the larger towns. Most Alaskan farms are so situated that it is possible for the occupants to sup-