Pan American
World Airways Teacher	Alaska 9
ulation, industries and products, exports and' imports, new trends, cities, changes new methods of travel have brought.
Historical facts; purchase, reasons, date, amount, by whom, government. New found importance of Alaska, nearness to Russia.
1.	Social Studies (material will be found in the following pages).
2.	Language Arts.
New words—dictionary work Spellings—note many places have Indian names, Spelling of words used in unit
Composition—letters asking for information, corresponding with a soldier or a family in Alaska; a letter to a person who has traveled to Alaska, suggested composition subjects:
Climbing Mt. McKinley, Pur Sealing, A Trip Up the Yukon River, Totem Poles, A Trip On The Alcan Highway, Finding Gold, An Airplane Trip in Alaska, Comparing the Life of Eskimos Today with Fifty Years Ago; Watching Eskimos Carve Ivory at Nome. Literature—stories about Alaska (Refer to Bibliography which lists many library books) poems—Promoter of the Arctic
—Robert L. Taylor; Maps—-Dorothy B. Thompson.
3.	Science
Reasons for variation in climate Formations of glaciers and icebergs
Hardiness of the Huskies How the Eskimos dress for various types of weather How the Eskimos make use of animal life in these parts Changes in lighting, housing, etc. Methods of travel, lighting, housing, etc., used by the Eskimos Various Time Zones
4.	Health
Food in Alaska Life in the Arctic Games
Changes in living conditions brought about by the arrival of many more people.
5.	Mathematics
Time to reach Alaska from your home by plahe, by steamer. Graphs showing increase of population since its purchase Graphs showing percentages of natural resources and their worth in dollars and cents Distribution of population and kinds of people
6.	Art
Pictures showing various seasons in Alaska
Pictures of Mt. McKinley, villages, etc.
Construction of villages, sleds, kayaks, totem poles, etc.
4.2.	Skills:
1.	Use of varied resources
2.	Improving ability to find a specific answer to a specific question
3.	Use of maps and globes
4.	Use of discussion techniques
5.	Ability to make comparisons
6.	Ability to correct many often quoted fallacies
4.3.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	A greater respect for the Eskimo and the many things we have learned from him.
2.	A greater knowledge of Alaska as a place where all may live comfortably.
3.	A better understanding of the fact that plane travel means that no
place is so remote that modern methods of living cannot be introduced and carried on.
4.	A better understanding of what Alaska means to the defense pattern of today.
5.	Suggested Experiences:
5.1.	Trip to Museum to see Eskimo sleds, huskies, clothing, tools, etc.
5.2.	Map study showing main cities in Alaska and their distances from the larger cities in the United States.
5.3.	Write to Territorial Library and Museum, Juneau, Alaska, for more information.
5.4.	Plan a trip to Alaska from where you live.
5.5.	Keep a Bulletin Board of up to date clippings on Alaska.
6.	Materials of Instruction:
6.1.	Many films and film strips
6.2.	Resource people
6.3.	Printed materials
6.4.	Pictures
7.	Leads to new units:
Study of other possessions of the United States
Things to do to make sure that you have learned more about Alaska
I.	Draw a map of Alaska and on it place:
1.	Mt. McKinley
2.	Yukon River
3.	Arctic Circle
4.	Juneau
5.	Fairbanks
6.	Anchorage
7.	Ketchikan
8.	Sitka