8 Alaska
Pan Am erica tv
Homo A/omrs Teacher
plement their food supply with an abundance of fish either from the sea or from nearby lakes and streams. Farmers often can or cure fish for winter use.
Fine qualities of chickens, cattle, sheep and hogs are being raised in Alaska but not in large numbers at present. Poultry farming has not been extensively undertaken because of the high costs of importing feed. But most farmers maintain small flocks and where feed is grown locally, poultry farming has been successfully undertaken on a commercial basis. It is estimated that Alaska has 35,000 square miles of grazing lands suitable for raising cattle and sheep on a large scale. The livestock industry at present has hardly progressed beyond the demands for dairy products. Cows for dairy purposes are kept near most towns, at many roadhouses and at some ranches for the purpose of producing milk for local consumption. Efforts to establish sheep ranching on a comparatively large scale have been made on one or two of the Aleutian Islands which have a mild climate and abundant forage. Substantial amounts of capital would be required for the establishment of a livestock industry on a large scale and the problems of isolation from markets and lack of transportation would have to be overcome.
Fur farming has been carried on in the Territory for a sufficiently long period to demonstrate that the raising of fur animals is profitable. The majority of licensed fur farmers raise minks and blue foxes although some silver foxes are in captivity. 85% of the world’s supply of sealskins, representing about four million fur seals, comes from the Pribilof Islands. Fur farming ifs especially profitable in southeastern Alaska and along the coast where fish, a basic fur animal food, may be procured cheaply. Exports of furs amount to several millions of dollars in value each year. A considerable portion of the income of Alaskan Indians and Eskimos is derived from the trapping of fur bearing animals. Hunting and fishing are the principal sources of their food supply. Herds of caribou, found on the Territory’s tundra lands, also support a large part of the native population. The tundra is too cold and wet to support tree growth, but is well covered with lichens, sedges, mosses, dwarf willows and other shrubs which provide a natural range for the caribou.
Alaska is one of the greatest tourist areas in the world and the possibilities of this industry are practically unlimited. The Territory has much to offer for recreational development and this source of revenue eventually may prove to be greater than the returns derived from minerals, furs or fishing. The establishment of airlines between the States and Alaska has brought the area into the time range of the ordinary short vacation traveler. Air service, combined with transport by steamer, rail and automobile may make Alaska a year round sports center. The Territory is so large and so diversified that the visitor’s program can be extensive or budgeted, depending on his time, interest and funds. The Arctic is a realm of immense distances, largely devoid of human life but not barren. A large number of important recreational tourist areas which may never be reached by land or sea alone are developing through the use of aircraft.
KOTZEBUE, ALASKA — The girl is an eskimo and she is dressed in a parka made from reindeer hide. The puppies are little huskies which someday will be hitched to dog sleds.
Hunting and fishing in one of the world’s greatest game regions are made possible by the airplane, thus opening unexplored areas and adding hours and days to actual hunting time. Airplanes are often used to transport hunters to and from an established camp. The numbers of big and small game animals, game birds and sport fish in Alaska are large, but they are spread over a vast region and result in a much smaller density per square mile than in the United States. It is almost as essential to go to remote and inaccessible areas and streams for good hunting and fishing as it is in our western states. Skiing is engaged in to a limited extent by local people of Anchorage, Fairbanks and some smaller communities during the winter and also during the summer on slopes of corn snow found on accessible glaciers. Mountains, glaciers, fiords and bays, the midnight sun and northern lights, generally clear weather, dog teams, the native culture and quaint craft of Eskimos and Indians, and interesting cities all point toward the eventual popularity of Alaska as a No. 1 vacationland.
Alaska, being a Territory, has a type of government that is part local and part Federal. A Governor is appointed by the President for a term of four years. The appointment must be confirmed by the Senate. The Territorial Government has Executive and Legislative divisions but the Alaska Judiciary is Federal. The Legislature meets every odd-numbered year at Juneau and consists of twenty-four members in the House and sixteen in the Senate. Senators hold office for four years; House Members for two. There is no county form of government. The Territory is divided into judicial divisions, regardless of population. Four senators are chosen from each judicial division, the twenty-four representatives being apportioned among the divisions according to population. Justice is administered by a Federal District Court having four divisions with judges sitting at Juneau, Nome, Anchorage and Fairbanks. Alaska elects a delegate to the United States Congress every two years. He represents the Territory, is a member of a number of committees in the House of
Representatives, can speak on the floor, and introduce bills but has no vote. Political parties of Alaska send delegates to the National conventions at which the candidates for President and Vice President of the United States are nominated, but Alaska has no votes in the electoral college, so the people cannot participate in the election. The question of statehood for Alaska is presently under consideration but the complexities of the issues involved seem to point toward a great deal of further discussion before any decision is reached. During 1954 the U. S. Senate approved a bill admitting Alaska, as well as Hawaii, to statehood, but the measure died in the House of Representatives.
STUDY UNIT PLAN
By Eugenie Nadelman
1.	Problem:
Are we familiar enough with this territory of the United States which has been brought so much closer to us by the airplane and the Alcan Highway?
1.1.	Reason for selection:
1.	Alaska is often in the news lately because:
of its nearness to Russia and U.S. defenses there of the question of statehood of its rich and ever increasing natural resources
2.	Many defenses have been set up in Alaska within the last few years so that more men and their families are settling in or hearing about Alaska.
3.	The number of tourists is increasing steadily.
4.	Alaska has always been more or less of a mystery to children and they should know more about its vast resources.
5.	Many misconceptions are part of peoples’ knowledge of Alaska and these could be cleared up.
2.	Probable duration:—two weeks
3.	Launching the Unit:
3.1.	Story of “Seward’s Polly.” Discussion of the purchase of Alaska. Are some of the same problems prevalent today?
Make use of children’s interest in the life of the Eskimo. Have them discuss what they “know” about Eskimos.
Children’s interest in “Huskies.” Pictures of dogs, dog teams, and discussion of their uses.
Pictures of scenes along the Alcan Highway.
Stories and pictures of Mt. McKinley and efforts to climb to the peak. News stories about U. S. defense bases in Alaska.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How have the natural resources of Alaska benefited the United States?
2.	Does the position of Alaska have any effect on United States defense policies?
3.	What future benefits may the United States expect from Alaska?
4.	How do the people of Alaska live?
5.	How do the various parts of Alaska differ in climate, geographical features, etc. ?
6.	Why is Alaska often called a “land of superlatives”?
4.	Expected Outcomes:
4.1. Subject matter:
Geographical factors; location, climate, resources, life of people, pop-