Pak Amerîca/v
Wo rid Airways Teacher
Alaska 5
INDUSTRY AND TRADE
By Lou A.
When an individual is considering the investment of money in a particular business venture, the principal concern is usually possible monetary profit. When the Government of the United States invests money outside of its continental limits, another, and today often more important factor, is considered—the venture’s contribution to national security. Rarely can both of these factors be entered boldly on the profit side of the ledger, but in the case of Alaska this has been possible.
Actually the purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867 for seven million dollars represents one of the most farsighted and profitable bargains in history. From a dollar and cents standpoint alone it has paid off handsomely. Since acquisition the Territory has supplied us with well over $2.25 billions worth of products including more than $1.2 billions in seafood, $838 millions in minerals and $160 millions in furs and other items. Its undeveloped resources in these same commodities and in forest, farm and other products will continue to yield increasing billions.
Alaska has enormous strategic value in terms of national security for our continental defenses can be no stronger than our Alaskan defenses. During the next two years the United States is planning to spend more than twenty-four times the Territory’s purchase price, or $170,000,000, on military construction as defense against possible attack from Russia. To the west of Alaska where the Bering Sea meets the Arctic Ocean less than three miles of water separate Russian and United States territory.
Phillips
In terms of air transportation, Alaska provides the shortest, safest route to the Orient. A considerable portion of the planned military expenditures will go to the Alaskan Air Command, for Elmen-dorf Air Force Base near Anchorage, and for Ladd and Eielson Air Force Bases near Fairbanks.
Alaska is the largest peninsula of the North American continent. It is surrounded on three sides by water: the Arctic Ocean on the north, the Bering Sea and the Arctic on the west, and the Pacific Ocean on the southwest. On the east it is connected with Canada by a six hundred mile border. Southeastern Alaska is not actually a part of the peninsula, but is geographically, the coastal section of northern British Columbia. The Territory has an area of more than a half million square miles (586,400 sq. mi., including the Aleutian Islands), about one-fifth that of the United States, and a 34,000 mile coastline.
Distances in Alaska are very great. From Ketchikan in southeastern Alaska to Attu, westernmost of the Aleutian Islands, it is farther than from New York to San Francisco. From Ketchikan to Point Barrow, on the Arctic Ocean, the distance approximates that from Seattle to the Mexican border. Adequate transportation to and within Alaska is one of the prime factors underlying the development of the Territory and the realization of its economic and other potentials. Railroad facilities are extremely limited and not connected with trunk lines in Canada and the United States. Only one road, operated by the United States
Government, leads from the States through Canada to Alaska. Ocean transportation affords limited service to coastal towns, and there is some river boat service on larger inland rivers. Transportation problems always have been great, but growing air services are doing much to overcome this handicap. At first, air transportation between Alaska and the States was confined to air mail service, which cut mail time from weeks to a few hours. Alaskan bush pilots soon brought isolated villages, mining and fishing camps within the reach of civilization. Finally, scheduled air service to the Territory was begun by Pan American World Airways and today no point in Alaska is more than a day away from Seattle. For example, Flying Clippers taking off from Seattle arrive at Ketchikan in 4^2 hours, at Fairbanks in 6 hours, at Juneau in 6l/z hours and at Nome in 8 hours.
The cheapest means of traveling long distances in Alaska is by plane. Air transportation has become a necessity and Alaskans use planes as most people in the States use automobiles and buses. The Territory has about fifteen times the amount of passenger air travel as continental United States, on a per capita basis, and more than one hundred times more air cargo transportation per capita. While air cargo service in continental United States is principally merchandise packages, much of the cargo transported to Alaska consists of the necessities of every day life. These commodities are the produce, fruits, fresh eggs, meat and fresh milk that reach every Anchorage table and most Fairbanks households. Lack of these commodities would seriously affect the standard of living of Alaskans.
Most Alaskan communities are not yet connected by roads although there are approximately 3,500 miles of roadway in the Territory. The main system connects the Kenai Peninsula, Anchorage, Fairbanks and Valdez with each other. There are also various local roads connecting isolated mining camps and other inhabited localities with each other and with other means of transportation such as the Alaska Railroad or navigable water. The connected system is joined to the United States by the Alcan Highway which is the only highway connecting the Territory with the Canadian road system and then with the road system of the United States.
The Alaska Highway begins at Dawson Creek in British Columbia and extends to Big Delta in Alaska, where it joins the Richardson Highway and continues on to Fairbanks. The total distance from Dawson Creek to Fairbanks is 1,523 miles. To reach the Alaska Highway from the United States requires traveling a distance of approximately 350 miles from the border over satisfactory roads to Edmonton, Alberta and an additional 476 miles over a fair gravel road from there to Dawson Creek. The Highway itself is a 26-foot gravelsurfaced road with moderate grades and curves and traverses an almost entirely unsettled region. Its northern portion is particularly scenic with lakes, mountains, forests and streams abounding with wild life. Accommodations and roadside facilities
JUNEAU, ALASKA — The capital city of Alaska is located on the continental shore of the Gastineau channel. Unlike some other parts of the territory, Juneau has a temperate climate, much like many parts of the United States. It has an excellent harbor, and its airport is very important to air transportation to the Territory of Alaska.