(4)	Giant of the North, 21 min., Sound— Black and White—Color, Alan Shilin Productions, 450 West 56th St., New York, N. Y.
Depicts the natural beauty, resources, and life of the, people of Alaska, particularly the Point-Hope Eskimos. Includes some pictures of jet-aircraft bases.
(5)	Northern Rampart, 18 min., Sound-Black and White. McGraw-Hill Text-Film Dept., 330 West 42nd St., New York, N. Y.
Produced by RKO Pathe. The complete and timely story of America’s last frontier— Alaska, a- keystone of national defense and a storehouse of natural resources. Today, in the age of the jet plane and the atom bomb, Alaska is one of our first lines of defense. To economists it is a source of supply of much raw material.
(6)	Timber and Totem Poles, 10 min., Sound — Color UW - Govt, United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York 29, N. Y.
Produced by the U. S. Forest Service, from whose regional offices it may be borrowed. Southeast Alaska—land of timber and totem poles—has much to offer Americans. Here on the Tongass National Forest there is timber waiting to be felled and hauled to the mills. Native Alaskan Indians, in ceremonial garb are shown restoring and copying their totem poles.
(7)	Alaska: The Story of A Frontier, 22 min., Sound—Black and White. Instructional Films, 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
Produced by 20th Century-Fox. Traces the history and development of Alaska from the Russian exploration and colonization to the present, emphasizing what it means to open up new country and pioneer with modern tools and machinery. Scenes show the vastn'ess of the country, the diversity of its climate, scenery, and resources.
(8)	Eskimo Summer, 16 min., Sound— Color—Black and White. Bailey Films, Inc., 6509 De Longpre Ave., Hollywood 28, California.
This is the only available film on the Eskimo which portrays the importance of group activity to the survival of those bands which live away from American or Canadian settlements. A tribe of Eskimos is shown engaging in summer activities necessary to their survival. The film shows their techniques of catching fish and hunting whales, walrus, polar bears, seals, and caribou.
(9)	Eskimo Arts and Crafts, 22 min., Sound —Black and White—Color. Bailey Films, Inc., 6509 De Longpre Ave., Hollywood 28, California.
Covers the craft activities of the Baffin-land Eskimos, including the making of kayaks, dog sled whips, boats, beadwork, ivory carving and net making,—the women participating equally with the men.
(10)	Alaska: Reservoir of Resources, 11 min., Sound—Color, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Reviews Alaska’s geographical features; locates its three great climatic regions, and indicates the major factors that make Alaska a true “reservoir of resources.” Depicts
Paw American
Wo kid Airways Teacher	Alaska i
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons”
ALASKA
LOCATION . . . The territory of Alaska lies in the far northwest corner of the North American continent and includes the Aleutian Islands. The Alaska mainland is due north of Honolulu. The Aleutians extend as far west as New Zealand.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The name “Alaska” was derived from an Aleut word meaning “great land,” and Alaska lives up to every inch of its name, with the highest mountains on the North American continent (Mt. McKinley, 20,300 feet) and rivers long and mighty (Yukon, 2,300 miles). Its a big and beautiful country from the steepwalled fjords of the southeast to the wide horizons of the Bering Sea coast. In the summer the sun shines 18 to 24 hours. In winter it’s a Jack Frost wonderland awesomely illuminated by the Northern Lights. It’s also a sportsmen’s country, with big fish and big game.
POPULATION . . . The fastest-growing region under the American flag, Alaska’s total population is 128,643. About 35,000 are Indian, Aleut and Eskimo.
SIZE . . . 586,400 square miles—one-fifth the size of the United States.
CAPITAL . . . Juneau, with a population of 5,818. Greater Juneau, however, has a population of 8,000. Alaska’s largest city is Anchorage, headquarters for the Alaska Defense Command, with a greater population of 30,000. There are 12 cities in the territory with a population of more than 1,000 persons.
GOVERNMENT . . . Purchased in 1867 from Russia for $7,200,000, or less than two cents an acre, Alaska became an organized territory of the United States in 1912. Alaska has a Territorial Legislature composed of 16 senators and 24 representatives, which is elected by the people and meets every two years. The Governor and Secretary are appointed by the President. Alaska sends a voteless Delegate to Congress.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, non-stop service from Seattle to Fairbanks, 6 hours flying time; non-stop to Ketchikan, 3 hours, and from Ketchikan to Juneau, 2 hours. From Fairbanks to Nome, 3 hours. Anchorage is 4 hours flying time beyond Juneau via Pacific Northern Airlines. By steamer it takes 2Rj days to reach Ketchikan from Seattle; 3 days to Juneau, and 6 days to Fairbanks (via the Alaska Railroad). The Alaska Highway, now partially paved, is reached from points in the States through Alberta, Canada, or the newly constructed Hart Highway through British Columbia. It takes about a week to drive from Dawson Creek, b.c. (Milepost 0) to Fairbanks. There are excellent roads within the Territory.
activities in the seven great industries contributing to Alaska’s economy—lumbering, fishing, mining, transportation, agriculture, fur farming, and the tourist trade. Includes many scenes characterizing Alaska’s scenic natural beauty.
(11)	Nanook of The North, 50 min., Sound —Black & White. Athena Films Inc., 165 West 46th St., New York City, N. Y.
Demonstrates the grim struggle for survival against menacing nature which Nanook and his Eskimo family must undergo. Robert Flaherty, who made the film in the Hudson Bay Territory, built up a dramatic picture of the struggle for life in a hostile environment by careful observation and sensitive recording of hunting, fishing, the construction of shelter, and the relationship between the individual and the family and community.
(12)	The Alaska Highway, 14 min., Sound —Black & White. B. F. Goodrich Co., 230 Park Ave., New York City, N. Y.
Describes the construction of the Alaska highway between Dawson Creek, British Columbia and Fairbanks, Alaska. Maps of the location of Alaska and Aleutian Islands are shown. The necessity of the road, the race against time and weather, the machinery- used, and the life of the men arc portrayed.
(13)	Alaska, U.S.A., 30 min., Sound— Color. Machetanz Productions, 441 So. Greenleaf Ave., Whittier, California.
Traces the story of Alaska today and its
people. We see Alaska as a large country modern in its modes of travel, development of its industries and farms, and in its city life. For sportsmen interested in hunting and fishing it is a paradise. Alaska is planning and building for statehood with many opportunities for those who will develop the resources of lumbering, water power, fishing, mining and farming.
Filmstrips
(1) Alaska, 31 frames with captions— color—Curriculum Films, Inc., 10 E. 40th St, New York 16, N. Y.
Explains how Alaska became Russian territory and why the Tsar sold it to the United States. Visualizes Alaska’s neglect before the gold rush and the development of its resources since.
(2) Alaska, 70 frames with captions— Black and White—Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc, Wilmette, 111.
Reviews Alaska’s geographical features and chief climatic regions. Indicates vast untapped resources of the territory. Depicts lumbering, fishing, mining, transportation, agriculture, fur farming, and tourist trade. Shows Alaska’s great scenic beauty.
(3)	Pioneers and Settlers of Alaska, 24 frames with captions—Color—Curriculum Films, Inc, 10 E. 40th St, New York 16, N. Y.
Shows how Alaska, neglected when a Russian possession, was acquired by the U.S.; its initially slow development; The Yukon gold rush; organization of territorial government; development of resources ; and recognition brought by World War II.