10
ally. Nearly 4,000,000 tons are burnt with high efficiency in the special furnace of the generating station, which produces two-thirds of the State’s electricity. Electricity is developed also from hydro power and big new projects in the Victorian section of the Australian Alps are now functioning. This area is also developing into an unrivalled vacationland with snow sports during the winter and fishing and wild flowers during the summer months.
Queensland
Queensland, the second largest Australian state has an area equal to that of Texas, Montana, California and New Mexico put together. Its capital, Brisbane, is two hours and fifteen minutes by air from Sydney. The Capital City has a population of just over 500,000 and has a semi-tropical atmosphere where commercial activity and a sense of leisure are ideally blended. One of the State’s principal attractions and one of the world’s wonders is the 1,250 mile long Great Barrier Reef. This Reef is a chain of coral islands with white beaches fringed with green palms. It is estimated that over 250 varieties of edible fish are found in Reef waters.
Sugar cane is Queensland’s most important crop. It is grown in the wettest parts of the coastal plain. Other important crops are wheat, maize, sorghum, pineapples, bananas, peanuts, potatoes, citrus fruit, apples, grapes, tobacco and cotton. The State’s dairy herds, nearly a million and a half cattle, are pastured in the eastern part of the State. Butter and cheese factories have been established at many centers.
Pig raising is an important industry in the dairying districts. Beef cattle are kept on the rougher and less well-grassed countryside in the eastern part of the State. Sometimes as many as 20,000,000 sheep are pastured in the great natural grasslands in the interior part of the State. Queensland has enormous coal deposits which extend over 73,000 square miles in area. The State also possesses valuable mineral resources which have been untapped for the most part. Among these are gold, copper, silver, tin, lead, zinc, tungsten, mica, manganese, iron and gem stones including sapphires, opals and topaz. Many secondary industries are now beginning to come into their own in Victoria, stimulated in large measure by the electrification and hydro-electric program of the state government.
South Australia
South Australia, with Adelaide as its capital, is the youngest of the continent’s states. However, in its short life, it has prospered and developed more than some of the older ones. It now ranks third in industrial output. At the turn of the century South Australia was predominantly agricultural and pastoral, but within the last forty years industry has expanded greatly. The expansion gained impetus after the first World War when many new industries were founded including subsidiaries of some of the larger American automobile companies. Today the motor body industry is a large employer and exporter to other states.
Between the two World Wars such other industries developed as tinware, builder’s hardware, stainless steel products, aluminum utensils, brushware, and refrigerators. World War II gave the final impetus to
Pan AmERrcAN
Would Airways Teacher
South Australia’s industry which was rapidly geared to all-out war effort. The most outstanding job was done perhaps by the aircraft industry which seemed to grow overnight. At the end of the war, industries swung to other work and the State now produces a wide range of products from cardboard containers to electronic equipment.
Western Australia
Western Australia, is the largest of the continent’s states. It has a million-odd square miles of area and is equal to one-third of the United States and one-nineteenth of the whole British Commonwealth. Men of the United States submarine fleet stationed in the South Pacific know the State well, for almost every submarine in the fleet docked at the port of Fremantle sometime during World War II. The people of Western Australia are like the residents of our state of California. They love the sun, spend most of their free time on beaches or sports grounds and boast of their sunny climate. There are great orchards of citrus fruits, dry lands made fertile by irrigation, and many fishing fleets. Western Australia is the least developed and least populated part of the country with the exception of the Northern Territory. Yet the State has tremendous possibilities that will be of great importance in the future. Beneath its surface is untold wealth with almost every mineral known from tin to tantalite, asbestos to copper. Great deposits of gold exist and its solid mountains of iron ore will provide for Australia’s steel requirements for centuries to1 come.
Tasmania
Tasmania, is the smallest of all Australia’s states, being only slightly larger than West Virginia. It is separated from the mainland by a 200-mile wide stretch of water known as Bass Strait. It is the most southerly of the States and can best be described as a mixture of Maine and Vermont, with a more temperate climate. Mountains are everywhere, but the valleys between are green and gentle. Rivers and lakes abound and fish are plentiful. The State’s short and numerous rivers play an important part in its economy. Tasmania has gone further than the “mainland in the development of hydro-electric power, with the result that many manufacturing companies have been attracted to the island for its cheap power.
Hobart, the capital, has a population of over 76,000 and is one of the most beautifully landscaped cities of its size anywhere in the world. It is situated on the broad expanse of the Derwent River backed by the steep 4,166-foot Mount Wellington. The State’s industries are primary and range from apple growing, to timber and beer production. Orchards, berry farms and vegetable gardens are now supported by a thriving canning industry. The island is very rich in minerals, the most important of which are copper, zinc, tin and lead. But despite its productivity the Island of Tasmania is best known to mainlanders as a vacationland second to none.
Northern Territory
The part of Australia known as the Northern Territory is perhaps one of the last regions on earth where a man can find pleasure in the struggle to conquer the earth and be sure of finding a worthwhile reward
in the end. The Territory is primarily a cattlemen’s country and it is along those lines that its future development seems to lie. The region is big. A day in Darwin, the Ter-ritory’s principal city will prove it. Visitors coming from the southern part of the Territory will talk about their neighbors who live a hundred miles away from them. Even the Territory’s doctors fly to treat patients with practices usually covering areas of anything up to 40,000 square miles. The area contains two of the biggest cattle stations in the world. Victoria River Downs and Alexandria Stations are each about twice as big as the state of New Jersey, and each is capable of supplying great quantities of beef. To stimulate settlement of the Territory the Federal Government has now adopted a new policy for the leasing of land to small holders. One of the region’s chief drawbacks has been its lack of transportation over vast distances. Much of the Territory’s transportation has been carried on by specially evolved road trains, composed of powerful trucks with several trailers. Modern producers are also evolving a system of carrying killed beef by air to market within a matter of hours. Some roads were built during the Second World War for troop movements and there is some railroad planning going on now.
NEW ZEALAND
New Zealand is a pastoral and agricultural land. Successful farming depends both on the natural fertility of soil together with management methods adopted to retain and improve fertility and as a country, New Zealand is specially favored for primary production. Its soil is very fertile and the numerous streams intersecting the land present to the farmers a great potential source of cheap power. In addition, because of its mild climate, animals can be left outdoors at all seasons of the year. Where suitable lowland was covered with native bush fern, New Zealanders cleared the acreage and planted it with English grass for sheepbreeding purposes. The United States imports considerable quantities of grass seed each year. This combination of good grass and breeding animals enables the country to produce and export economically large quantities of meat, wool and dairy produce. Dairy farming and sheep farming together with other types of primary producers support almost 40% of the total population. In addition, a good proportion of so-called industrialists, financiers and administrators spend their time almost entirely in the different- processes of getting produce from farms to consumers.
The Land Of The Sheep And The Cow
The breeding and management of livestock is the chief occupation of New Zealand farmers. The first real prosperity of the pioneers, and the beginning of the pastoral industry, was found in keeping sheep for wool. This industry has steadily evolved and expanded from the earliest days of settlement. Wool has been the staple ex-port for the greater part of the country’s history and has contributed more to the revenue of the nation than any other single product.
Today sheep farming is an efficient, scientific business with flacks averaging about one thousand animals. New Zealand is