Pan Amcrícan
World Airways Teacher
LAND OF THE ANZACS
by Enrique Portes
KANGAROOS—This photo shows how useful is a kangaroo’s tail—to a kangaroo. One supports himself while reaching up for a morsel of food, the other leans down and has his mouth and both front paws to investigate what he sees on the ground.
During the last world war many Americans spent months and years in Australia and New Zealand—the land of the Anzacs.* Some of them, like most of us, had heard more about Australia’s queer animals—the kangaroo, emu, koala bear and the duckbilled platypus—than of its growing industries, its enormous sheep and cattle ranches and its vigorous and active life. Our notions of New Zealand were even vaguer, but we knew it more for its scenery, its big-game fishing (popularized by Zane Grey) and its native Maoris, than for its thriving dairy industries and advanced social legislation.
Yet even today some of us tend to get the two countries confused in our minds. Many a New Zealander in the United States, on saying where he comes from, has heard the disconcerting reply. “Oh, yes! I used to know another fellow from Australia!” There is no doubt that Australia and New Zealand resemble each other in many ways, as do Canada and the United States, but it is neither accurate nor polite to lump them together as some of us sometimes do in our ignorance.
In the first place, Australia and New Zealand are no less than 1,200 miles apart, separated by the stormy waters of the Tasman Sea. In the second place, the two countries are quite different in physical appear-ance. Australia, about the same size as the United States and a continent in itself, is a geologically ancient land whose mountains have been ground down to stumps. Much of its interior is desert and almost uninhabitable, while the northern third of the country lies in the tropics. New Zealand, on the other hand, reminds the American visitor of the coast regions of northern California, Oregon and Washington. Its two main islands, each about the size of New York state, are rugged and mountainous, with snow-covered peaks and ranges of exquisite beauty. New Zealand has a more temperate climate than Australia and a greater rainfall. Hence much of the hill country is covered with dense subtropical forests, while the lowlands are green with excellent pasture.
There are other contrasts. Australia is the land of the merino sheep, from whose wool fine textiles are made, and of beef cattle; New Zealand the land of the doublepurpose sheep (used for both meat and coarser wool) and of the dairy cow. Australia, like the United States, has a federal form of government, with six states instead of forty-eight (a Federal Parliament with a Governor-General who represents the Queen) ; New Zealand, like Great Britain, has a central government (its own Parliament with a Governor-General). Australia’s aboriginal people are extremely primitive (the blackfellows) and live an isolated ex-0^', istence in the back country; New Zealand’s 120,000 Maoris are a cultural Polynesian race akin to the Hawaiians, and play a vigorous and respected part in the life of the nation.
* Originally a shortened version of Australia New Zealand Army Corps, in World War I, the term Anzac has come to be applied to any person from Australia or New Zealand.
How are they alike? Both Australia and New Zealand were settled within the last 160 years, almost entirely by emigrants from England, Scotland and Ireland. Like Canada, both countries are members of the British Commonwealth—Australia since 1900 and New Zealand since 1907. Politically they are quite independent of Great Britain though they acknowledge allegiance to the same Queen. Today both are members of the United Nations.
New Zealand’s Beginning
In a little more than a century of British settlement, New Zealand has become the dairy farm of the Empire and a world source of meat and wool. White pioneers, however, were not the first farmers here. Centuries earlier, wave-tossed Maoris landed their frail canoes in New Zealand and made it their home. They cultivated yams and taro, tried to grow coconuts, breadfruit, and bananas.
Tradition tells that these Polynesians brought the seeds on epic voyages from distant Pacific island homes. They used sun and stars, trade winds, currents, and mass bird flights to navigate infinite reaches of empty ocean. Exactly where the Maoris originated, or when they first migrated to New Zealand, nobody knows. Estimated, but unconfirmed, dates of arrival begin around A. D. 950. Certainly the racial trek continued for centuries. According to the Maoris’ own oral history, handed down through generations, their main fleet arrived in 1350. The Polynesian invasion subdued and virtually exterminated the aboriginal Maori natives; of them we know almost nothing.
Not until 1642 did white men discover New Zealand; Dutch navigator-explorer Abel Tasman then sighted it, sailing along the western shores. Savage Maoris discouraged his landing there. For the next 127 years only a ragged line loosely charted “Nieuw Zeeland” on a world map. In 1769 Capt. James Cook of the British Endeavour reached the North Island’s east coast. As the first European to stand on its soil, Cook claimed the country for England, and his circumnavigation of the main islands put New Zealand roundly on the map.
At first the reaction in England was, in effect, “No, thanks; we do not want it.” But Captain Cook’s reports eventually helped to send sealing fleets and whaling ships swarming to these waters. In a few years the sea rovers won hundreds of thousands of valuable skins and countless barrels of oil. After that, history follows a regular pattern. Adventurers, traders, and missionaries came. Settlement led to discovery of gold; within a single decade, the 1860’s, white population jumped from about 75,000 to some 250,000. As the nuggets diminished, men settled down to farm. Land disputes with the Maoris became bloody wars. Mutual agreement, not victory, eventually brought peace. Settlers resumed their pioneering; imported sheep increased to feed and clothe a colony that began in earnest to farm for life. How about the Maoris? Since they have been living in harmony with white men, their population has trebled and now is nearly 120,000. They have equal rights and representation in government, make good citizens, superb soldiers, and loyal friends.