Pan American
s	Won id Am ways Teacher
mine, “are the names given to tea-drinking occasions.” According to him, there are three kinds of “tea”. To begin with, there is morning tea at 10 or 11 a.m. Then there is afternoon tea at 3 or 4 p.m., which is usually accompanied by great quantities of bread and butter, cakes, cookies, and even fruit salad. But one must not confuse either of these two with the occasion called “tea,” because in many homes dinner is served at
lous long beak when not smelling out worms to eat. This earth-bound, chicken-sized oddity runs swiftly, sees poorly, but hears and scents acutely. It wears what looks like a grayish-brown jacket of soft fur, actually slender, hair-like feathers. No other bird lays an egg so large in proportion to its body; an average female weighs five pounds, but her egg is about a, pound.
The kangaroo is widely known and has become a symbol for Australia, although down there the koala bear is the more popular animal. But the marsupial which hops like a giant grasshopper, carries its young in a pouch (that’s what the word marsupial means), and boxes like a prizefighter, has become internationally famous. The kangaroo varies in size and weight. The red kangaroo stands between six and seven feet high; the grey averages five feet from crupper to nose-tip, and weighs around 180 pounds full-grown. Going at top speed it averages 16 feet per hop. The koala bear has a very amusing expression with a look of combined surprise and aloof dignity. Astonishingly, because it is usually so sleepy and lethargic, the koala can make a noise loud enough to drown out the vocal efforts of almost any other animal in its neighborhood. Last but not least, the platypus, with its furry body and tail of muskrat, is Australia’s most preposterous thing alive. It is an animal with a bill like a duck (often called the “duck-billed platypus”) which lives mostly in the water, and its children are hatched from eggs.
As in England, “tea” in Australia and New Zealand is a very important subject. It is not just the beverage that we know in the U. S. In fact, “tea” may be a whole meal. “The thing that may confuse you at first,” explains a New Zealander friend of
midday and the evening meal is called “tea” —or what many of us call supper in the United States. For a New Zealander “supper” means refreshments served at the very end of the evening after you’ve come from the theatre, for instance. In general, the same is true in Australia. Along the roads you may see “hot water” signs displayed— Australian motorists take along their own tea and for a few pence, from the roadside stands, they can get hot water and a small tin can in which they brew their tea.
Australians and New Zealanders are an outdoor people. They say that the three R’s there are racing, rugby, and “rastling.” The fact is that these people go in for a wide variety of active sports—bathing, cricket, golf, and tennis. Instead of saying, “let’s go for a swim,” the Australian suggests “let’s go surfing.” This latter sport consists simply of riding the crest of a wave to the shore. This is done with or without a surfboard. It is difficult to single out their national game. Rugby football is considered New Zealand’s and cricket Australia’s. But unless you visit those countries you will never realize how important athletics are to every man, woman and child in those lands.
Many very interesting facts about these countries cannot be included here. My humble advice is to read them in books. However, before you arrive there you might feel like Alice in Wonderland when she tumbled down the rabbit hole. Alice wondered whether she would fall right through the earth and come out among people of the Antipodes. “... I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know,” she said to herself. “Please,... is this New Zealand?” (or Australia, I might add). Unlike Alice’s wonderland, however, those countries are populated by real people. Among themselves they have wrought a way of life born of respect and liking for others. And they are shaping a hopeful heritage for generations to come.
KOALA BEARS—These Australian arboreal marsupials (they spend a good part of their time in trees; the young ride in their mothers’ pouches as do kangaroos) are about two feet long when fully grown. When exhibited in American zoos they are invariably called Teddy Bears by young visitors, and adults too, and no wonder!
(Photo by .Burton Holmes, from Hwing Galloway, N. Y.)
KIWI—This is New Zealand’s famous non-flying bird. It has no wings, but its feet are strong and it can run very fast. It seems to be covered with hair, but the “hairs” actually are slender feathers.