Pan A mer r ca tv
2	Airways Teacher
Pah Americas World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1953, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
TOUR ORGANIZERS REPORT
(Continued from page 1)
American Youth Hostels
AYH offers transportation to Europe via PAA Rainbow Service, and travel by bicycle in Europe with overnight stops at hostels. These trips are very popular with students who are active and economy-minded—last year there were 325 participants in 33 groups on 15 different hostels bicycle trips ranging from four to eleven weeks, and including Canada and Mexico as well as Europe.	i
The European trips ranged in price from $507 to $704, depending upon duration and areas covered.
The address is American Youth Hostels, Inc., 6 East 39th St., New York 16, N. Y.
Lafayette College
Lafayette College has been an outstanding pioneer in Round-the-World air tours. A photograph of part of the group which flew around the world via PAA last summer with Professor Harold Tarbell accompanies this article. Lafayette’s program includes also “Around South America”, “Middle East Seminar”, “Northern Europe”, “Continental Europe”, and “Europe”. In each case the tour is led by a qualified educator, and credit is awarded by Lafayette which may be transferred in accordance with customary requirements and restrictions of other colleges.
The address is Lafayette College, Overseas Study Program, Easton, Pennsylvania.
University of Houston, International Study Center
University of Houston’s international study program is one of the oldest in the United States. It consists of travel to Mexico for attendance at the Summer Center of Mexico to study Spanish, Mexican folklore and Contemporary Problems of Mexico, and successful completion of the course earns 6 hours credit. The Director is Dr. Joseph S. Werlin, and the address Cullen Boulevard, Houston 4, Texas.
University of Indiana Summer Session
The University of Indiana Summer Session under the direction of Summer Session Director H. B. Allman has pioneered a program of summer courses consisting exclusively of travel of study (as a supplement to courses offered on the campus). Indiana last year sent two different groups to Mexico City, both led by Professor Merrill Eaton, both for credit, and plans a similar program for 1954.
Write to Professor Merrill Eaton, University of Indiana, Bloomington, Indiana.
AVIATION EDUCATION AIDS
Aids to learning for use in the class room may frequently be found in the chain stores, as every alert teacher knows.
Teachers who want to illustrate aviation concepts are always eager to have airplane display models, and the shiny ones that may be seen in travel agents’ windows would be perfect. But the cost of such models cuts their availability for class room use almost to zero.
However, excellent models in wood and plastic may be found in chain stores and hobby shops, and a brand new model of a brand new airplane which now is available from those sources is the StromBecker model of Pan American’s Douglas Super-6 Clipper.
Super-6 Clipper
A photo of the Super-6 in the StromBecker version is shown on this page, and the model is as authentic as the name “Clipper Priscilla Alden” on her nose.
The scale is 1/9 inch to one foot. The model assembled has a wing span of 13 inches and length of 11inches.
Like other famous StromBecker models— one of which was the China Clipper—the Super-6 is a solid wood display model (not a flying model). It is purchased in kit form, with all parts formed, ready to assemble and finish. The kit is complete, containing even such necessary small items as sand paper and glue, and the retail price is $1.79, with display stand.
The youngster who gets the assignment of assembling and finishing the class’s model accepts it as a privilege, and success is assured as the assembly process requires no special skill.
StromBecker offers many similar kits of both commercial and military airplanes.
The Golden Book of Airplanes
Simon and Schuster’s Golden Books and records are well known to every teacher of
young children, and this book about airplanes maintains the high standard we have learned to expect of this publisher.
It is a “Golden Play Book” and comprises 88 pages of text and pictures, a great many of them in color. The author is Paul Jensen and the illustrator Jack McCoy. The cover is an illustration of the Comet—British jet plane which is on order by Pan American World Airways for delivery in 1956. The first few pages of the book illustrate and describe the world’s largest, smallest and fastest airplanes. It then deals with airliners, cargo planes, sport planes, racers and military planes. There is an excellent section on the history of aviation from the viewpoint both of the airplanes with which this history was made and the men who designed, built and flew them.
The book may be purchased for fifty cents at the many retail outlets for the Golden Books.
A Globe for a Dollar
The Air Age calls for global thinking, but many a class room lacks a globe for teaching along those lines. In fact, it is likely that there are more class rooms lacking globes than there are globe-equipped class rooms.
This lack can be remedied with the outlay of one dollar by the purchase of the Urb plastic Pan American World Airways globe. Basically, this is a plastic beach ball, and many—probably most—of the Urb globes will see service primarily as beach balls. But the geographical imprinting has been done carefully, and problems of printing and joining sheets of plastic which then have to be stretched when the ball is inflated, have been so skillfully dealt with that distortion is negligible. The globe has an amazing amount of detail, and is more than adequate for illustrating basic concepts.
It will be on sale in chain and department stores before the first of the year.
MODEL SUPER-6—This is an authentic solid wood model, which comes in kit form and can be assembled quickly. See article on this page.