tu
A
TOUR ORGANIZERS
Travel agents and college tour who wound up the greatest mer educational travel ever of vacation and beginning of school term didn’t even breath before beginning on
Offerings will range relatively nearby points Habana and San Juan for summer sessions, to round-the-jaunts occupying forty to sixty days, are for academic credit which may be fered in partial fulfillment of requirements for degrees. Teachers frequently may satisfy, in part, requirements of school systems for professional advancement, or of state departments for teaching certificates, by presenting evidence of this sort of travel.
Here are some comments on results in
1953	and plans for 1954 as reported to World Airways Teacher by various organ-
1Zers :	S.T.O.P. Tours
Harold Martin, Director of Student Travel Overseas Programs writes that “You will no doubt, be particularly interested to know that we are printing a special folder on our STOP Ford-Tours of Europe for
1954	featuring Trans-Atlantic travel by your Rainbow Tourist Service.”
“Interested” is too mild a word.
The S.T.O.P motor tours of Europe offer flexibility of itinerary and opportunity for a close look at the countryside together with the advantages of group travel. A typical group included five Fords full with students, teachers and others from various parts of the United States, and with each car driven by a British student. They toured the Shakespeare country and other areas in England, crossed to Paris and motored through France, visited Rome and other parts of Italy, doubled back to Switzerland, and returned to the United States from France.
(See “Europe by Car” in the Standard Oil Company, New Jersey, publication “The Lamp” for June 1953—or write to S.T.O.P Tours, 2123 Addison St., Berkeley 4, Calif, to request a folder.)
Other attractive S.T.O.P tours include a Japan-Orient Adventure Cruise in conjunction with the San Francisco State College summer session, and offering 6 units of college credit; a South America tour with S.F. State for 6 units of credit, and a trip to Mexico for attendance at the summer session of National University.
Guild of Student Travel
This series of tours is sponsored by Transmarine Tours Inc., of which the Guild of Student Travel is a division. Dr. Benjamin W. Van Riper is Executive Secretary of the Guild.
There are nine different tours, each under the leadership of an outstanding educational
Nov.,
Pan Amer World Airways Teacher
ROUND THE WORLD—This is part of the group which circled the globe last summer on the Lafayette College Round the World Tour. Professor Harold Tarbell, who organizes the Lafayette series of summer tours, and usually conducts the one going round the world, is at left. Like many summer tours, this one offers college credit.
tour leader—usually an active college professor—and with departure dates ranging from June 17 to July 9. There is a variation also in the length of tours from approximately 45 to 70 days. Academic credit is available, and if this factor is of importance one should check it with the Guild of Student Travel and with the university where it is desired that the credit be recorded.
Air travel to Europe is via PAA, and motorcoach travel is used in Europe. Areas visited include Great Britain, France, Italy, Germany, Holland and Switzerland.
The address of the Guild of Student Travel is 500 Fifth Avenue, New York 36, New York.
The Sorbonne American Institute and Richelieu Institute of University Studies Abroad
These institutes, both headed by Dr. Michael Otero, offer summer study for credit abroad, as follows:
The University of Paris, the Sorbonne. Students may select courses in French, French literature, or French literature, in lower, upper or graduate divisions, earning 2 to 4 units per course.
University of Barcelona in Spain; the University of Lille, France; the University pf Toulouse, France; and the University
of Coimbra in Portugal. The Richelieu Institute of University Studies Abroad has arrangements for summer study at these universities with offerings comparable to those listed above for the Sorbonne.
School of Fashion Designing in Paris and the School of Domestic Arts at Cordon Bleu. Courses at both of these schools have been set up for American students by the Richelieu Institute, and college credit may be earned.
The address of the Sorbonne American Institute and the Richelieu Institute of University Studies Abroad is P. O. Box 1405, Beverly Hills, Calif.
NEA Travel Division
Tours tailored for teachers are the specialty of the Division of Travel of the National Education Association. The thousands of teachers who have traveled on their tours within the United States and abroad all testify to the quality and economy of the NEA offerings. Academic credit is available if desired, and if requirements for it are met.
In 1954 NEA again will offer conducted tours to Europe, Latin America and to Hawaii. Write to Paul Kinsel, NEA Travel Division, 1201 Sixteenth Street, N. W., Washington 6, D. C.
(Continued on page 2)
1953
y Pan American World