Pan Am frìcan
World Airways Teacher
13
An understanding of the need for being friendly with our “neighbors” in the South Pacific.
An interest in the varieties of people, their habits and customs.
An interest in the unique animal life.
5.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
1.	Send for material from the various information offices.
2.	See movies and strip films.
3.	Make scrapbooks of animals and birds. Include pictures and outlines of characteristics.
4.	Plan a route the King and Queen of England might take on their visit.
5.	Work out various routes you and your classmates might take. Recommend places to visit and tell what would be interesting to see.
6.	Interview a soldier who has been to Australia.
7.	Make up some problems to solve involving changes of time, distances between points in Australia and New Zealand, changes in population, increases in production.
8.	Learn some of the songs which have been mentioned.
9.	Select a book from the Bibliography, read it, and tell about it.
10.	See how many picturesque words you can select which will help you to describe the beautiful scenery.
11.	Write a story about spear fishing off the coast of New Zealand.
12.	List articles in which wool is used.
13.	Collect news clippings about Australia and New Zealand for a bulletin board display.
6.	CULMINATION:
Any of the items listed above might make all or part of a culmination. A visit from personnel of one of the airlines to tell about an air-trip to Australia and New Zealand would be interesting and helpful.
Map the route of the King and Queen of England and show the places they visited.
7.	LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
Interest in other parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations might result from this unit. A further study of Islands in the Pacific might also follow.
I.	Map Study
On a map of Australia and New Zealand can you locate?
Cities
Canberra
Sydney
Melbourne
Brisbane
Darwin
Auckland
Hobart
Wellington
Dunedin
Christchurch
Fremantle
Adelaide
Newcastle
States
Tasmania New South Wales Western Australia Southern Australia Perth
Victoria Queensland Northern Territory
Bodies of Water
Murray River Torres Strait Bass Strait Darling River Gulf of Carpentaria Indian Ocean
Pacific Ocean Antarctic Ocean Botany Bay Cook Strait Tasman Sea Lake Eyre Others
Eildon Dam	Tropic of Capricorn
Great Barrier Reef Questions for Discussion:
1.	Why is it said that the remoteness of these countries worked to their disadvantage?
Although Australia and New Zealand are 7,700 miles from the United States why does the bond between us grow stronger each year?
What effect will the “Air Age” have on Australia and New Zealand and their position in the world?
How did World Wars I and II provide impetus to industries in Australia? Which industries were affected the most?
5.	Why does Australia occupy a key
2.
4.
role in the future development of the Pacific area?
6.	Explain the statement “the oldest of continents houses one of the world’s youngest nations.”
III.	“Air” Information on Australia and
New Zealand:
1.	Name the main airports.
2.	When was Darwin almost destroyed?
3.	Why is air travel used so much in Australia?
4.	At what places might you stop en route to Australia?
5.	How does the cost of an air trip between Sydney and Melbourne compare with the cost by train? Ship? What about time?
6.	Where is it necessary for Doctors to fly to treat patients?
IV.	The Discovery of this Continent:
1.	What city was the site of the first Australian settlement? When?
2.	Who were Captain Cook and William Dampier?
3.	Who are the Australian primitive aboriginals?
4.	Who were the early inhabitants of New Zealand?
5.	Who was the first white man to sight New Zealand?
6.	Who claimed New Zealand for England?
7.	When did Captain Cook claim Australia for England?
8.	Who was Tasman?
9.	What happened in the United States on the day of the first real settlement in Sydney?
10.	Emigrants from what countries settled most of Australia and New Zealand?
V.	The Government:
1.	Describe the government of Australia.
2.	How does the government of New Zealand differ from that of Australia?
3.	Who represents the Queen?
4.	What is the name of their legislative body?
5.	When did Australia and New Zealand become part of the British Commonwealth?
6.	Describe the capital city of Australia.
7.	To whom did Australia turn for ideas in framing its constitution?
8.	How often are members of parliament elected?
9.	Which of these countries was first to allow women to vote?
10.	Who is the leader of the parliament?
11.	What are their cabinet members called?
12.	What happens in these countries if you fail to vote?
VI.	Review of Australia:
1.	In what zone is Australia located?
2.	What is the capital?
3.	How does this city compare with Washington, D. C. ? Who designed it?
4.	How far is Tasmania from Australia?
5.	How many states in Australia? Name them.
6.	What city is called the “harbour city”?
7. How does the time in Australia compare with Pacific Coast Standard Time?
8.	Compare the size of Australia with that of the United States.
9.	Into what four regions is the surface of Australia divided?
10.	Are there any high mountains in Australia?
11. How much of the world’s wool comes from this country?
12.	Name the capitals of each state in Australia.
13.	Which state has most of the cattle ranches?
14.	How does Australia compare in size to other islands?
15.	For what is the wool of the famous Australian sheep noted?
16.	What animal has become a pest?
17.	How long does it take to go from Australia to New Zealand by ship?
18.	When did the Gold Rush take place?
19.	What trees are famous in Australia?
20.	Name 5 birds or animals common to Australia?
21.	What is the length of the Australian coastline?
22.	Where is the famous “Golden Mile”?
23.	What is Canberra called?
24.	From which state does the largest percentage of wool come?
25.	What army officer set up the sheep industry?
26.	How much of Australia’s wool does the United States purchase?
27.	What is said about the production costs of iron and steel in Australia?
VII.	Review of New Zealand:
1.	Name the capital.
2.	For what is Auckland noted? Christchurch? Dunedin?
3.	What volcano is located in New Zealand?
4.	What territory is included in New Zealand?
5.	How far is New Zealand from Australia?
GEYSER—Rotorua, on North Island, New Zealand is famous for geysers which rival those of Yellowstone Park. (If you lived in New Zealand you’d say that the Yellowstone geysers rivalled those of Rotorua). The sign warns visitors to “keep off terrace formation.”