12
Pajv Amer/can
World Airways Teacher
A SUGGESTED UNIT STUDY By Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	PROBLEM:
What are the many similarities between
Australia, New Zealand and the United
States?
1.1.	Reasons for Selection:
1.	There has always been curiosity to know more about the land “down under.”
2.	Many Americans spent much time in Australia during World War II.
3.	News headlines arouse curiosity. For instance:
“Aussies Fear Wool Slump”
“Is Australia Rich With Black Gold?
“Australia Develops rich Uranium Fields”
“Kiwi Bird Flies From New Zealand By Plane”
“Britain to Test First A-Bomb in Australia.”
4.	The King and Queen of England are planning a visit to Australia and New Zealand.
5.	The Pacific Treaty (ANZUS) Australia, New Zealand and the United States.
6.	The interest students have always displayed in the animal life of Australia.
2.	PROBLEM DURATION:—3 weeks
3.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
3.1.	Approach:
1.	News clippings, many of which are interesting enough to stimulate students to want to find out more.
2.	Pictures; of kangaroos, the platypus, duckbill, anteater and other forms of wild life in Australia and New Zealand.
3.	Story of the successful climbing of Mt. Everest. Edmund Hillary is a New Zealander.
4.	Stories about the “Anzacs.”
5.	Stories of the aborigines.
6.	Representatives of the United Nations.
7.	With the coming of winter, the story of wool and the Australian sheep.
8.	Books and films (refer to listings in this issue).
9.	Accounts of recent tennis matches in Forest Hills in which the Australians played an important part.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why has the remoteness of Australia and New Zealand worked to their disadvantage?
2.	Why is there such a close bond between the United States and the Anzac countries?
3.	What has helped population and industry to increase so rapidly?
4.	How did the United States inadvertently help with the settlement of Australia?
5.	How do the governments of Australia and New Zealand compare with that of the U. S.?
4.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
4.1. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies—location of these islands, discovery and settlement, size of continents, differences in climate, facts about the various inhabitants, the government, the industries and products. Knowledge of the most important cities; for what are they noted; the states of Australia, Australia’s interesting animal life, how they have developed their natural resources, types of government and effects of experiments in government. Trade exports and imports, trade centers, trade relations with the United States and United Kingdom. The significance of the air age in transportation and communication. The place of Australia and New Zealand in the British Commonwealth, in the United Nations, in the Pacific, and in re-
MAORI CARVING—This picture was taken in the Maori village of Whakare-warewa, near Rotorua, and shows a native carving at the entrance to a Whare-Manuhiri, or meeting hall. Maori carvings come in smaller sizes, too, and visitors usually acquire them for souvenirs.
lations with the United States. The part Australia played in World War II and the places our soldiers visited. Become familiar with the accomplishments of Captain Cook, William Dampier, Sir John Eyre, Daisy Bates, Sir Julius Vogel, Robert G. Menzies. (The Social Studies material will be found in this issue.)
2. Language Arts — new words — meanings listed on last page of this issue.
Spelling—new words which are used while working on this unit. Compare some of the English spellings with those we use in America Oral Communication—reporting on movies and strip films shown to the class; discussing several of the problems stated; giving and sharing information received in answer to letters; interviewing someone who has traveled to Australia and New Zealand; giving a book review.
Written Communication—letters asking for information; writing accounts of visits to sheep ranches; of an air trip to Australia and New Zealand; of the habits of the native birds and animals; of the native “Black-fellows,” Maoris and “bushmen”; about Edmund Hillary’s part in climbing Mt. Everest.
Literature—Australian literature has developed in the last 50 years. Some who helped are the Lindsey brothers (Norman, Lionel and Percy); Henry Kendall, a poet; Henry Lawson, who has been compared to O’Henry; C. J. Dennis, who is compared to Ring Lardner; stories of the Maoris; Adam Lindsay Gordon; Henry Kingsley; a biography of Katherine Mansfield, Australian short story writer, by a New Zealander, Antony Alpers, has just come out. Sir Hugh Walpole was born in New Zealand. Daisy Bates and her book “The Passing of the Aborigines.”
3.	Art—Maori carvings, paua shell novelties. David Low, cartoonist. Original pictures, scenes of Aus- ^ tralia and New Zealand. Picture/ collection of birds and animals.
4.	Music—Songs of Australia and New Zealand can be found in Australian Bush Songs by Retoul and Paterson; Music Everywhere, Singing School Series, Armitage. “Waltzing Matilda” was a popular song of World War II. Percy Grainger was born in Australia. Many of his compositions are familiar to the students. Some may be able to play them. “Country Gardens” and “Shepherd’s Hey” are included in Music Appreciation. Nellie Melba, famous opera star of the early 1900’s was also a native of Australia. The Australian Symphony Orchestra has become famous.
5.	Science—Why are these countries referred to as “the land down under?” Formation of the great barrier reef and coral islands; mineral resources (including uranium); absence of towering mountains; reversal of seasons (snow in June, July and August); mild climate; region of semi-desert; grazing lands for sheep; sub tropical forests. Study of the habits of the common and uncommon animals such as: rabbit, kangaroo, koala bear, opossum, platypus, anteaters, the wild dog, dingo. The Kiwi bird, emblem of Australia, cannot fly; Kookahurra bird laughs, ostrich, emu, lyre bird. Eucalyptus tree from which we get gums and oils; ferns and lillies; the wattle, the national flower which can be compared to our goldenrod; (their plant life is said to be the most interesting in the world) ranches or “runs.” Study the international date line and the native’s boomerang. Experiments in freezing meats. Sir Ernest Rutherford, phys i c i s t, worked on the atom.
6.	Health—These are sports loving people. They are prominent in outdoor sports such as racing, rugby, bathing, cricket, golf, tennis, surfing. The importance of healthy athletes is stressed. Good public health program. Clean cities and towns, no slums.
7.	Mathematics—study of shifts in population; distances to and from places in Australia and New Zealand; time it takes to get there by air, ship; time by railroad within the continent; shifts in time because of the International Date Line; figures on areas; graphs on exports and imports. Good practice in reading numbers if you go over all the figures mentioned in this issue.
4.2.	Skills:
Map skills should be developed during this unit through the location of many familiar and unfamiliar places. Estimation should also play a big part when talking of distances, shifts in population, growth of industries. Time should be set aside for many discussions and expressions of opinion on problems stated in the outline. Outlining may be practiced. < List characteristics of the various animals in order to talk from the outline.
4.3.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
A realization of the actual size of these lands.
A realization of the implications of the locations of these countries and what it may mean to their future.
A realization of the continual progress being made in industry, communication, government.