16
Pah AmerrCA N
Mon id Airways Teacher
NORWICH UNIVERSITY’S AVIATION EDUCATION WORKSHOP
by Jean Cobleigh
In the heart of the scenic Green Mountains is a typical Vermont community, the town of Northfield. Situated ten miles south of the State Capitol, Montpelier, it is the proud home of Norwich University. Each year some 700 young college men invade the campus to pursue their various courses in preparation for military or civilian careers. This summer, while these students were on vacation, the campus was taken over by a group of Teachers and Administrators for a workshop course in Aviation Education. This was an historic event indeed as it marked the first time women were admitted as students to the 135 year old University!
For six memorable weeks we worked and played together. We lived in a brand new dorm—“barracks”—as the cadets would call it, which had been furnished with colorful drapes and scatter rugs especially for us. Transportation was provided to and from the Barre-Montpelier Airport, source of our flight experience trips. Our classes were held in £he new Cabot Science Hall— a beautifully appointed building with laboratories, library, lecture halls, classrooms, and air center complete with a Link Trainer.
It was great fun getting acquainted with teachers from various parts of the country and exchanging ideas with them. We found that whether we taught in one-room school-houses at country crossroads or in overcrowded city schools many of our problems were common to us all. Children are children wherever they go to school. Concerning problems which were peculiar to our own teaching situation, we found the ideas for solution offered objectively by our new friends from other States were often both helpful and useful.
Aviation in Education
We all focused our attention on the subject of Aviation and its place in education today. Stimulated by outstanding speakers we were introduced into the Air Age and made to see how the airplane has and is changing our world and our way of life. We were fortunate in having a whole succession of Guest Lecturers who were all airminded, forward-looking individuals eagerly playing their part in the world of aviation today and preparing for bigger and better things to come in the future.
Our day to day classes were especially interesting to me. We learned about how and why an airplane flies and some simple experiments with which to demonstrate to our children the scientific principles involved. We learned to call by name the principal parts of airplanes and how to classify aircraft according to their use and general design, wing construction, number of engines, landing apparatus, and so forth. We saw how weather affects the airplane and how pilots and navigators must take it into consideration when they compute their estimated time of arrival, plan their flight route, and estimate their fuel consumption. Something of the basic rules and regulations that govern flight came in for our consideration.
Miss Jean Cobleigh, who wrote the article on the aviation education workshop at Norwich University, is a kindergarten teacher at Memorial School, Springfield, Massachusetts.
For information about next year’s workshop, write to the Department of Aviation, Norwich University, Northfield, Vermont. Similar workshops are held throughout the United States, and a list of them is compiled each year by the Aviation Education Staff of the Civil Aeronautics Administration in Washington, D. C.
For information concerning the Civil Air Patrol workshop program communicate with National Headquarters, Civil Air Patrol, Bolling Air Force Base, Washington 25, D.C.
Whenever you have airplanes you must have airports for them to land on and take off from whether they be bodies of water or level tracts of land set aside with facilities for housing, supplying, and repairing-aircraft as well as arrangements for loading and unloading passengers and cargo. We learned something of the problems of establishing and maintaining airports and the part airports can play in the life of a community.
Air World Geography
I found Air World Geography a fascinating subject. I’ve always had a passion for maps and those prepared for the Air Age are especially interesting. When you realize how quickly we can get from one place to another via the air, unhindered by physical barriers on the earth’s surface, you begin to see how our world is changing and how important it is to do our thinking on the global scale.
We learned about some of the organizations which are at work in the field of Aviation and particularly those we can write to for additional information and materials to use in our classwork. Something of the vocational opportunities in the aviation industry was included in the course. We learned of the skills, abilities, and educational requirements necessary for these various jobs which will help us in guiding youngsters interested in aviation careers.
The highlight of the Workshop for me was the flight experience. We flew in a United Aircraft Corporation DC-3 to Bradley Field at Windsor Locks, Conn, and toured the terminal facilities there and the industrial plants of the Kaman Helicopter Corporation, Hamilton-Standard Propeller, and Pratt and Whitney located in the vicinity. This was an especially exciting trip as it was the first time in the air for most of us. Later on we were given opportunities to fly in a twin-engined Grumman amphibian from Link Aviation, Inc. and a single-engined Navion of the Vermont Bureau of Aeronautics for half-hour trips over the Barre granite quarries, the golden-domed capitol building in Montpelier, the radio-
range station and our own Norwich campus at Northfield. From the aerial view which these planes afforded we gained a new appreciation of the beauty of the rugged White Mountains and Adirondacks in the distance and the thickly-wooded Green Mountains and the pastures and cultivated farmlands in the valleys of Vermont.
Now that I’m home again after attending this Aviation Education Workshop, my friends and neighbors are anxious to hear all about it. Can I fly a plane? Can I teach others to fly? Inevitably they get around to asking just what help will such a course be to me as a kindergarten teacher?
Generally speaking, I think that any course which introduces a teacher to a new field of knowledge can broaden her outlook, making her a more interesting person and, in turn, a better teacher. Certainly this course was an eye-opener for me. I know I have learned a lot of new things and have had many out-dated concepts brought up to date in keeping with ever-changing conditions in today’s world. I understand a few more things and feel more at home now in this Air Age.
The course has given me a new interest which I hope will develop into a new hobby. I’ve become so enthusiastic about flying that I’m hoping to take some lessons at a nearby airport.
Air Travel to Distant Lands
All our discussions concerning how our world is shrinking and how easy it is to get to places quickly by air and all those beautiful colored travel movies put out by the various airlines, have fanned my desire to travel to distant lands. I found two other teachers at the Workshop, one from Denver, Colorado and one from Montreal, Canada, who shared my desire and we’re now busy making plans for a trip to Europe next summer !
More particularly, I know the course will help me in my work with five year olds. The community in which I teach is midway between a thriving civilian airport and a busy Air Force Base. My pupils often drive with their parent to Bradley Field to watch the planes come and go on a Saturday or Sunday afternoon or journey to Westover Air Force Base when the military holds “open house”. Every day various types of planes fly overhead and attract the children’s interest and attention. The children are interested in aircraft and naturally ask questions to satisfy their curiosity. Now that I’ve developed a little background through the Workshop I feel that I am in a better position to answer their many questions and to give them the facts they are seeking in language they can readily understand. And if I don’t know the answer to a $64 question, I at least know where to go to look for the answer.
I'm grateful for the opportunity I had in attending the Aviation Education Workshop. For facts, flight experience, six units of credit and fun, I recommend it to every teacher for next summer. I guarantee you six weeks you’ll long remember!