Pan Amfr rcan
Mo rid Airways Teacher	March-April
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1949, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
MAIL BAG...
Gentlemen:
The P.A.A. Educational Unit No. 3, “The Other Americas” arrived in time for our classes to start their study of the South American countries. They have been studying the countries of Asia and were ready for new worlds to conquer. I am sure the material you so kindly mailed to us will be a big aid.
Andrew T. Kille Ojai, California
Unit No. 3, consisting of product maps in color, booklets and slide film is available without charge for deposit in visual aid centers. Please ask your Visual Aids Director to request it.
Gentlemen:
We are pleased to find the fourteen booklets among our morning’s mail. They are good; just what I want for my vertical file.
No one could be more interested in travel _ than the writer. He has never but once been in an airplane. However the motor, canoe and two legs carry him all about. So far since living in Indiana I have made 27 of our rivers and creeks. This and the Yellowstone. Am spending much of my reading time in winter reading of the Southwest or of possible future camp sites. The first good day a flying friend of mine has promised to take me up. I want to plot and see the Tippecanoe River from the air. Knowing every bend, island and interesting point I want to see what it looks like from above.
Thanks very much for the pamphlets.
Lloyd W. Josselyn Albert A. Wells Memorial Library Lafayette, Indiana
Well, Mr. Josselyn has been aloft in an airplane once, anyway, and has plans for the future. The booklets to which he refers are on the countries of the world. A list of these pamphlets which also describes other free teaching materials will be sent to any teacher requesting it. The complete set of geographical pamphlets has been supplied to about 2,000 libraries. If you are a librarian and do not have the pamphlets, and want them, send your request to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, Nezv York.
Air Travel Bargains
Air coach service at a fare rate substantially less than the regular air fare has been established by PAA between New York and Buenos Aires and intervening points on the east coast of South America.
First introduced on the New York-San Juan, Puerto Rico route, at a fare of $75, the coach type service proved so popular that it was extended to other Caribbean and South American points. On the Buenos Aires trip the coach type fare makes possible a saving of $120 one way and $167.60 on round trip ticket, under the fare for first class service. The new coach type fare to Buenos Aires is $465.
President Eisenhower
The President of Columbia University keeps in touch with the alumni and alumnae by sending them from time to time a multi-graphed letter reporting on developments at 116th and Broadway, New York.
Some readers of World Airways Teacher receive these letters, but many others do not, so we are reproducing from one of them certain portions which have special interest for teachers:
“One of the happiest aspects of my new job is getting away from my desk and visiting our Schools and Colleges to see how things are going. Not long ago 1 had the pleasure of going through Teachers College from basement to roof. My first and most distinct impression was one of high morale. In the service when an officer visited an army post, he could always sense very quickly whether it was an effective, enthusiastic outfit, or one that merely went through the motions. Here I found that the keynote was thoroughness, enthusiasm and loyalty....
“I believe that the teacher is about the most important person in American society. He ought to be generously paid and there ought to be many more of him. Every Alumnus and friend of Columbia can take pride in what Teachers College is doing for education and the standards of the nation’s schools. Once in a while I have heard offhand remarks about ‘pinkos’ at TC. I usually find that these critics have never been to TC and know little or nothing of its work. Certainly it is my conviction that the leaders and faculty of Teachers College are supporting the assertion that the first mission of our schools is to prepare our youth for effective citizenship in a free democracy.
“The communists will always try to move in on the country’s school system, realizing that success would assure control of the country. The communists have felt that
they could have no better target than the underpaid school teacher. They have been proved wrong. It is to the everlasting credit of our teachers that 99 and 99/100ths percent have stood by their guns. Columbia is proud of its graduates in the teaching profession. It has been my observation that those who shout loudest about ‘The reds in our schools’ have done little to inform themselves at first-hand or to make sure that we have good schools.
“During the war, I never could look upon the conflict impersonally. I believed that the nations which stood for human good and men’s rights were confronted by an evil conspiracy with which no compromise was possible. We were engaged in a" crusade to preserve human rights. As we now realize, this crusade against oppression is not over. Each generation of Americans has to learn that freedom must be won in its own way and time.
“To help the present generation understand and value human rights is one of the greatest responsibilities which Columbia faces. And to do- this, we must understand the essentials of opposing ideologies, so that we can appreciate our own democratic system. As I said in my inaugural address, ignorance of communism, fascism, or any other police state philosophy is far more dangerous than ignorance of the most virulent disease. Who can doubt the choice of future Americans, between statism and freedom, if the truth concerning each be held before their eyes? .
“At Columbia we are engaged in a crusade in the best sense of the word. Columbia intends to listen to all ideas, including those hostile to our own, but we also intend to devote ourselves to the task of making sure that our students understand America......”
Sincerely
Dwight D. Eisenhower
Obviously, the objectives of President Eisenhower and his faculty at Columbia are identical with those for which the presidents and faculties of teachers colleges and universities all over the country are striving.
But General Eisenhower has stated them so well for all of us, that it seemed like a good idea to repeat his words for you here.
Correction
Through an editorial error, the article by Mr. Trippe in the last issue of World Airways Teacher stated that 400,000 persons flew to Europe in 1948. It should have been 300,000.
G.G.