Pan Am erfCAN
March-Aprii, 1949	WORLD AIRWAYS TmCHEtt
centers of entertainment—theaters, motion picture houses, athletic and sport fields.
What Spain gave to the World
Spain gave to the world a great writer: Cervantes. Born in 1547, Cervantes died on April 23, 1616, and on the twenty-fourth his body was borne by his religious brothers through the streets of Madrid to- its resting place. “The great soul of all England had gone eleven days before, Shakespeare. Perhaps his prophetic spirit waited for the other’s coming, that they might fly abreast.” In any case, Cervantes and Shakespeare are in one country now, “our true country”, as Plotinus calls it, “the place from which we came and where our Father lives.”
Though this is not a comparative study of the two men, it is extraordinary how both express their ideas of the same thing. As a curiosity let us quote the precepts which Shakespeare puts In the lips of Polonius—in Hamlet—and Cervantes in the lips of Don Quixote.
Cervantes: “Take care, Sancho, that virtue be your means; pride yourself of doing laudable deeds and you shall never have reason to envy those whom princes and lords have fathered.”
Shakespeare : “Give thy thoughts no tongue, nor any unproportion’d thought his act.”
Cervantes : “Keep clean and cut your nails. Go not ungirt and loose, son, for slovenly attire proclaims a slatternly mind.”
Shakespeare: “Costly thy habit as thy purse can buy, but not express’d in fancy: rich, not gaudy; for the apparel oft proclaims the man.”
Cervantes: “Eat slowly, speak with deliberation, but not as if listening to yourself, for all affectations should be avoided. Be temperate in drink, knowing that the full pitcher keeps neither secret nor promise.”
Shakespeare: “Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.”
Castles and Cities in Spain
Every Spanish city is a living Encyclopedia of the country as a whole. Each one is Spain in miniature because the history of the peninsula is so interwoven that you cannot separate a town or a village without pulling out a piece of Spain’s heart. There are scores of cities whose very mention of them revive in you legends of unforgettable beauty.
Madrid comes first. We cannot say in a few words what only a long visit could supply. Madrid is the capital of Spain by the will of Philip II. His decision was on geometrical reasons, since Madrid was' the nearest town to the center of the Peninsula. The character of this city is a key by which you may decipher the quality of Spain. The Puerta del Sol was for many years the focus of all national movements. Madrid has the Prado Museum with original paintings by Velazquez, El Greco, Goya, Murillo, Zurbaran and many others. You’ll see “Las Meninas” in a room by itself, almost covering one wall. Velazquez’ figures seem to move, their lips to open. Standing before this picture you know that something miraculous has come within your experience, “whose kingdom is the light of setting suns.” You will also see El Greco’s “Caballero de Santiago y San Luis” picture.
Wearing the long white cloak of his Order, the knight kneels before an altar supported by a lean figure in armor. He is just about to start upon some hazardous expedition. Madrid is also the Cathedral of San Isidor, the Convent of the Descalzos, and the Retiro, one of the finest parks of Europe.
Barcelona, the industrial and rich metropolis, brings you the essence of modern Spain. Its Plaza de Cataluña, with magnificent gardens and fine groups of sculptures, is the heart of the city. From this plaza begins the most famous of all avenues— the Rambla—which extends as far as the harbor. Another is La Calle del Marques del Duero, known as the Paralelo, the Broadway of Barcelona, lively spot because of its theatres and places of entertainment. The Plaza del Rey, where Columbus was received by Ferdinand and Isabella on returning from his voyage to America in 1492, is still there. Barcelona is also the city where Don Quixote forswore knight-errantry and all its works henceforth, riding sadly home to La Mancha as plain Don Alonso Quijano, “El Bueno”—to die in full possession of his senses.
Valencia “has everything, lacks nothing,” any Valenciano will tell you. The old and the new compete in excellence. Valencia is the city of the Cid Campeador who conquered it from the Moors. It is the city of the Cathedral—formerly a Mosque—-famous for its many gates. As in the days of the Moorish occupation, irrigation of the surrounding lands is still regulated by a bell rung in the Miquelet, and the syndics of the Tribunal de las Aguas, which has deliberated in the porch of the Apostles’ Gate of Valencia Cathedral each Thursday for the past seven hundred years, still meets there without fail to- carry on the admirable Arab fallas (bonfires) in which artistic and humorous wooden and wax figures are burned, and the Juegos Florales in which poetry is the weapon that wins.
Meet the Spaniard in Spain
As a modern traveler you can meet the Spaniard in Spain a few hours after you leave America. If it is color and gaiety you seek, Spain is rich in both. If it is the picturesque — you seek, bull-fighting, a spectacle of daring and skill, for instance, can be enjoyed anywhere. If it is the historical past, the great masterpieces of all time, it offers El Escorial, El Prado for Spain is really a marvelous museum.
In Spain you will hear the guitar and the haunting wail of the Malagueña. You can still see the Sevillian woman wearing her shawl folded in oblong shape so that it lies straight across her back and hangs over each arm. You can still admire the jota Aragonesa which the people dance with flame-like intensity dressed in buttoned jackets above a black cummerbund, in slashed breeches, white stockings stringed roman-wise, and black alpargatas. Yes, you can still hear the machine-guns of their castanets until the guitarists fall back for breath.
But Spain is still more than that. Spain is the people whose spiritual greatness remain intact. Their friendly trustfulness towards all, even towards strangers and foreigners is proverbial. And it is so easy today to fly the ocean and meet them in Spain.
A group of gypsies dancing in front of one of their houses. In Granada there is a large colony of gypsies. By pre-arrangement with a guide, they perform dances for the tourist.