4
Pan Am errcan
World Airways Teacher
March-April
The chief airport on the Portuguese mainland is Portela de Sacavem, the landplane base at Lisbon. Pan American Clippers land there 5 times a week 19 hours after leaving New York. New 60-passenger Boeing Stratocruisers are expected to complete the three thousand mile trip in less than 10 hours. Before land-planes were used over the Atlantic, Pan American World Airways flying-boats used to land on the
Main courtyard of the Pena Palace in the mountain range of Sintra.
River Tagus at Cabo Ruivo, a seaplane anchorage near Lisbon. Even before landing in continental Portugal Clippers have already touched the territory of the Portuguese Republic on its way in Horta, in the Azores, where refueling takes place.
Three Ports-----Gateways To The World
The capital city, Lisbon, has a population of over 800,000 and is also the chief seaport of the land. It is a city radiant with color. Seen at a distance from the Tagus it shines white in the sun but as one approaches its buildings the different pastel shades of various houses become evident. Some facades are pink, yellow, light blue, almond green or white under roofs covered with red tiles. Some are completely encrusted with delicately glazed tiles which sparkle like jewels. The city has many parks, palaces, churches and gardens and its sub-tropical vegetation maintains a luxurious green hue all through the year.
Oporto is the second city of Portugal and stands on the steep, rocky, right bank of the Douro River in the northern part of the country about 165 miles from Lisbon. Owing to a bar at the mouth of the river, an Atlantic harbor has been constructed four miles farther north. The famous Port Wine comes from the city of Oporto (and the equally famous Madeira from the Madeira Islands). Within the confines of the city are seven principal churches, including a Cathedral built by Henry The Navigator; a polytechnic academy; an observatory; scientific collections ; and other academic institutions. There are universities at both Lisbon and Oporto but the oldest and most famous college is found in Coimbra which is called the nation’s Seat of Learning. The annual enrollment at these colleges is over 15,000.
The other principal port of the country is Setubal located about seventeen miles southeast of Lisbon. It is one of tire important tuna and sardine canning centers of the country. Portuguese sardines are famous the world over. At all times rows and rows of fishing boats can be seen in its harbor against a background of lovely churches and battleworn fortresses. At the outskirts of the city, orchards and vineyards producing oranges and muscatel grapes are found.
The Fruits Of The Land
Agriculture is the most important occupation of the people. In the warmer sections, oranges, lemons and olives are grown in abundance. The most important fruit is the grape from which the nation’s famous port wine is made. About one-third of the land is devoted to the raising of cereals. Great numbers of cattle, sheep, goats and hogs are raised. Fish, next to wine, is the most important product of export and is confined mostly to tuna and sardine canning.
About one-fourth of the land is forested, the most important trees being the cork and the oak. There are also chestnut groves. Crude cork is one of the nation’s most important products of export, and the production of resin and turpentine is also an important industry. Portugal possesses considerable mineral wealth, but for want of electric power and cheap transportation valuable mines remain unworked. At present there are only a little over 2,000 miles of railway and 9,000 miles of highways so the country must rely heavily on the Tagus and Douro Rivers for transportation to the ocean. There are however, known deposits of coal, copper, lead, sulphur and tin.
Textile production is the principal manufacturing industry but one of the most characteristic of the land is the manufacture of azulejos or porcelain tiles. This was inherited from the Moors, and tiles are used extensively for interior and exterior decoration of public and private buildings. At Sacavem, near Lisbon, a large factory makes tiles and chinaware. In Peniche, an old fishing village on the north coast of Lisbon there is a local pillow lace industry and the Island of Madeira is also famous for embroideries.
Portugal and the United States
The chief imports of Portugal are fuel-oil and coal, steel, raw materials and some heavy industry products. Its chief customers as well as suppliers are Great Britain and the United States. Portugal is among the sixteen Western European Nations who have accepted the Marshall Plan but the Portuguese Government declined financial aid in the first year of the program’s operation. The monetary unit is the escudo which is worth four cents in American money.
During World War II the country remained neutral. This neutrality was held under an agreement with Spain to keep the Germans behind the Pyrenees. On the other hand, Portugal’s help to the Allies proved important through the allowance of strategic bases on the Portuguese Islands in the Atlantic which were used by the Amer-' icans and the British to defeat the U-Boat threat in that area.
At the end of World War II Portugal was frankly prosperous. In spite of widespread individual poverty and hardship, partly traditional and partly due fi> the higher cost of living there were substantial gold reserves and dollar credits. But at war’s end Portugal, as every other nation, bought feverishly from the United States. Purchases ran the gamut from motor vehicles to novelty toys and toilet requisites. As a result before long we were selling to Portugal much more than we were buying in return. To further aggravate the situation Britain and Germany which used to supply Portugal’s coal needs could no longer do so and coal had to be purchased from the United States. This increased the flow of dollars out of the country. Moreover the mounting austerity of life in Britain precluded such luxuries as port wine and tinned sardines which are among Portugal’s richest exports. Sales to the United States also' decreased in the face of competition from exporters in North Africa and Spain who offered cork or sardines at lower prices. The Government became alarmed at the outflow of United States currency and started to' clamp down on dollar imports, banning luxury articles altogether. In addition a ceiling of $3,600 was imposed on the retail prices of automobiles which resulted in the disappearance of most American cars from the Portuguese market. In contrast, trade with Great Britain was increased, due in part to ancient commercial ties and also to the fact that as a result of wartime purchases England was in debt to Portugal for about 80 million pounds. Repayment was naturally made in English pound sterling. By the latter part of last year automobiles, commercial vehicles and coal were arriving mainly from Great Britain.
When the Portuguese had available dollars they preferred American goods and they will undoubtedly buy our merchandise again as soon as they can afford to do so. Portugal cannot pay its bills however unless it can sell products to the United States or provide Americans with services which will earn dollars. The pleasantest means of getting these dollars abroad is for American visitors to take them over. Each one left behind will ultimately be spent in the United States. Moreover the dollars spent in Portugal will open up a new world, for the whole way of life and standard of living there is very different from that enjoyed in the United States.
What You Will See In Portugal
In all classes of patriarchal Portuguese Society, with perhaps the exception of the self-reliant fisherwomen, Portuguese women are never independent. A girl is in the custody of her parents until she gets married and once she is married her husband assumes that responsibility. Well-to-do Lisbon families seeking country girls as maids, advertise in the papers that they, like their own daughters, will never go out alone. This is an incentive for rural parents to entrust their daughters to the city family. Even if such promise is not given, the practice is that maids, who sleep in, hardly leave the house except to go to church and to visit relatives on Sunday afternoon. Even girl students of Lisbon’s medical