March-April, 1949
Portugal
By Lou Phillips
Pa/v AmerrcA/v
World Airways Teacher	3
Tourists standing in front of a typical Portuguese store in the small fishing town of Ericeira.
If Henry The Navigator, princely patron of mariners and King of Portugal during the fifteenth century were to return to Lisbon today, he would probably be a bit saddened but very proud of the tiny 40,000 square miles of land which are closer to the United States than any other part of the European Continent. It is true that Portugal does not play so^ dominant a part in world affairs as in Henry’s day when its ships showed the way to India, The Isles of Spices and the Rivers of Brazil. Since then man has conquered the air as he did the sea, Clippers of the sky have succeeded their surface-bound counterparts and a whole new field of aerial navigation has been developed. But Portugal’s strategic situation on the globe and the far-flung empire it still controls would stir Henry’s imagination and prompt him, as it has over eight million Portuguese of today, to plan to play an important role in the Air Age.
Portugal is located in the western part of the Iberian Peninsula and its frontiers in Europe are almost seven centuries old. On the west and south lies the Atlantic Ocean giving the country a coast line of nearly 465 miles. On the north and east is Spain. Although there is no great natural barrier between Spain and Portugal the character of the landscape changes completely when one crosses over the frontier. The Portuguese nation has experienced over eight hundred years of independent existence, defending its soil in many bitter battles, and its people have developed strong traditions distinctly apart from the Spanish. They have both a language and a culture all their own.
The Age of Portuguese Glory
Portugal gained its independence as a kingdom in 1147 and its territorial acquisitions on continental Europe were completed in the early days of the thirteenth century with the occupation of the southern part of the country. The great role of Portugal in the world’s history came in the reign of King Joao I (John) when the Portuguese settled in North Africa and started their grand enterprise of navigation and discoveries. Under the inspiration of Prince Henry, son of Joao I, the nation’s sailors explored nearly two thirds of the inhabited globe. Vasco da Gama reached India, Cabral discovered Brazil and all the Indian Ocean and the China Sea were familiar to the Portuguese before the first quarter of the sixteenth century. Magellan, a Portuguese, leading Spanish ships in the area accorded to Spain by a treaty, sailed the Pacific in the first voyage around the world.
Henry loved the sea and under his guidance Portugal entered in a fierce race with Spain for the legendary wealth of distant countries. Its ships were the fastest and most seaworthy and its seamen were reputedly the best in all Europe. But the Prince also believed that mariners should be trained for such dangerous voyages so he founded a school of navigation and brought the finest astronomers and mathematicians there to instruct the seamen. Their explorations
brought both fame and riches to Portugal for a lively trade sprang up between that nation and the newly discovered lands.
But the people of Portugal also suffered in this gigantic drive. Its manpower, ravaged by the epidemics of the times, was drawn upon too heavily by all these undertakings. Gradually much of the enormous Portuguese Empire was lost to other powers, mostly to Holland and England. In 1792 King Joao became involved in a war with Napoleon which resulted in occupancy of the nation until the French were driven out by the British in 1808. During this time the royal family abandoned Lisbon and transferred the seat of government of the country to Brazil. For twelve years Rio de Janeiro was the capital for the United Kingdom of Portugal and Brazil. When the King returned to Portugal he left his eldest son in Brazil who became Emperor in 1822 as Pedro I. Under Portuguese rule Brazil advanced rapidly but because of a desire for a democratic government, a republic called the United States of Brazil was established in 1889 and all members of the royal family returned to Europe. The daughter of the Emperor of Brazil became Queen of Portugal and her descendents ruled the country until 1910 when the Monarchy was replaced by a Republican Regime.
The early years of the new republic were troubled by political and social unrest. In 1926, a military government took control of the country. Soon after, Marshal Carmona was elected President and in 1932 Oliveira Salazar became Premier. The Marshal has been reelected three times, his third term ending in March 1949. According to the Constitution of 1933 the country is a Corporative Republic. The president is elected 'for a seven year term and the
National Assembly for four year terms. The president appoints a premier who selects a cabinet but is responsible directly to the president and not to the National Assembly.
Portugal Overseas
Portugal still holds great parts of its territorial discoveries and conquests. It has possessions in Africa—Guinea, Angola, Mozambique, the Cape Verde Islands and the Islands of Principe and S. Tomé; in Asia—Portuguese India and the Island of Macao ; and in Oceania—the eastern portion of the Island of Timor. Each territory is governed by an appointive Governor assisted by a local Advisory Assembly. The exports from these colonies are mostly agricultural but in many areas there are gold, diamond and other mineral mines. This colonial empire of over 803,000 square miles and with more than 10,800,000 inhabitants is outranked by only those of England and France.
Portugal’s empire is one of her greatest potential assets in the Air Age. Because of it the nation has, dispersed throughout the world in convenient locations, cities and islands which could serve admirably as bases for international air transport. Only Great Britain of all other nations is better supplied with such strategic, potential bases. Although France possesses excellent aerial centers many are far removed from each other and from the regions of great commercial activity. The United States, in contrast, has relatively few potential bases and must negotiate with other nations for the use of foreign facilities. In 1930, a Franco-Portuguese aviation company obtained a thirty year concession for the exploitation of commercial aviation within Portugal and a monopoly of air routes between that country and its colonies.
V