6
organized industries in the country, the first company—La Papelería Española—having been organized in 1901. By 1919, right after the First World War, this industry grew considerably, taking at that time the name of Sociedad Cooperativa de Fabricantes de Papel de España. Because of the great production of paper it became necessary to find a new market—this new market was Spain herself. How could this happen? The paper industry became its own customer by publishing its own books and newspapers. Mr. Nicolas M. Urgoiti, the president of the Paper Co. founded a great morning paper, El Sol, and an evening paper, La Vos, plus two publishing houses: Espasa-Calpe and Gráficas Reunidas.
What El Sol came to be in the newspaper world, Espasa-Calpe was to the world of books. Magnificent offices were built in the Gran Via of Madrid. Its popular editions of the classics, its collections of Spanish and Spanish-American biographies, and, above all, the great Encyclopedia have enriched the libraries and culture of the Spanish speaking world. It is generally acknowledged that the Espasa-Calpe Encyclopedia, because of its sumptuousness and coverage, has no rival. It is also astonishing that Spain where literacy is not the highest in Europe should have produced a monumental work of this nature. This seems to show once again that illiteracy in a country does not necessarily mean ignorance.
Aviation in Spain
Aviation in Spain has grown considerably during the last ten years. Spain not only operates its own air lines but is connected with the rest of the world by means of international air carriers. Pan American World Airways serves Spain regularly—in fact, twice a week from U.S.A.
There are two non-government aviation organizations in Spain: the Federación Aeronáutica Nacional de España and the Association of Aircraft Engineers, which was founded in October, 1947.
The principal aircraft manufacturing companies are the Construcciones Aeronáuticas, S.A. (CASA), and La Hispano Aviación, S.A. The principal engine manufacturers are Elizalde, S.A., and Hispano-Suiza Fábrica de Automóviles, S.A. The Hispano-Suiza Factory is located in Barcelona. Aircraft and accessories are produced by Industrias Subsidiarias de Aviación, S.A. at Seville.
According to the 1948 World Aviation Annual 500 planes were manufactured during 1946-47.
Construcciones Aeronáuticas S.A. (CASA), with offices in Madrid, has factories in Madrid, Getafe, Seville and Cadiz. This company employs about 3,500 workers. Elizalde, S.A. has its office and factory in Barcelona and is producing engines of various types. La Hispano-Aviacion S.A. has its office in Madrid and its factory in Seville.
According to reports early in 1948 there were three Spanish air transport companies. (1) Iberia, the State-owned scheduled airline; (2) CANA, a privately-owned charter company; and (3) Aviación y Comercio S.A., a new company. IBERIA serves not only Spain and its territories, but Buenos Aires, Geneva, London, Rome and Tangier
Pa\ American
Would Airways Teacher
The famous bullfighter Manolete, now dead, taken during a bull fight at Toledo.
as well. CANA operates for the most part within Spain, but has flown passengers and freight to Lisbon, Rome, London, etc.
The Spanish program for airport development provides for 15 airports for international traffic, four for overseas traffic, four major airports and seven less important plus 40 destined entirely for domestic service.
At the end of 1946—according to a report —a total of six air clubs existed in Spain. They averaged 200 members each and owned 30 light planes. These clubs are at Madrid, Andalusia, Valencia, Ballates, Barcelona, and Saragosa and belong to the National Aeronautical Federation of Spain.
Aviation in Spain is a reality of tremendous importance. It plays a double service in a country where mountains are the general rule.
Education in Spain
It is generally accepted that the greater the number of schools in a country the greater the level of education of its people. There are some exceptions, however. Illiteracy does not necessarily mean ignorance. It refers particularly to the inability to read or write. A case to the point is the remark made by an English author—Chesterton, I believe—about the Spanish people. In one of his journeys through Spain he stopped in an isolated village in the central plateau. There he talked for hours with peasants who had never gone to school and yet could discuss with the distinguished visitor many subjects of universal significance. Years later, Chesterton wrote with admiration: “How enlightened those illiterate Spanish peasants are.”
There is nothing new about the traditional education of the Spanish people. Theirs is a culture which comes from centuries back —profound and universal. In the field of mind and soul it has held high the torch of light. In the 12th century Spain gave to the world a great epic poem: the Poem of the Cid, and a masterpiece of Gothic architecture : the Cathedral of León. In the 13th century, Alfonso the Learned wrote the first great work of modern history: the General Chronicle of Spain. In the 14th century,
March-April
Juan Ruiz, Archpriest of Hita, wrote El Libro de Buen Amor: a series of boisterous tales like those which Chaucer would write in England a few decades later. Magnificent Gothic cathedrals rose to the skies during those centuries in Burgos, Toledo and Barcelona. In the 15th century Spain produced the first vernacular grammar of Europe, and the anonymous Celestina surpassed only by Cervantes’ Don Quixote.
The universities of Spain became famous the world over during that century and the next. It is estimated that by 1619 there were 32 universities, the University of Alcalá de Henares, founded in 1508, and the University of Salamanca, founded in 1230, being the largest and most cosmopolitan in the Europe of that century. In Alcala de Henares there was edited and published the first polyglot Bible to' appear in Europe ; Salamanca had as many as 8,000 students in attendance.
The 16th and 17th centuries were the Golden Age of Spain. Literature and painting reached the highest level in perfection. In Cervantes’ Don Quixote, Spain has what is considered the greatest novel of all times. That Golden Age also produced dramatists like Lope de Vega and Calderon ; a poet and an essayist, in Góngora and Gracián. And who does not know about El Greco, Ribera, Velázquez, Murillo, and Goya—painters of unsurpassed greatness. Can a people with this glorious background be otherwise than “enlightened” ?
We must, however, give you whatever statistics are available on present-day schools and educational activities. According to the statistics issued by the “Instituto Nacional de Estadística” in 1948, there were in Spain during 1945-46, some 45,414 public elementary schools with 2,600,447 children registered, that is, “60.9 per cent of school age children” in the country. During the same period, according to the above mentioned report, there were 53,170 teachers in Spain. In that time, the 55 Normal Schools in existence were training 24,541 school teachers.
The 118 “Institutos” had an enrollment of 198,741 students. The 27 Business Schools in the country had an enrollment during 1945-46—according to the same report—of 57,143 students. And the 14 Spanish universities of today had a student body of 40,426. These university students were studying Law, Medicine, Philosophy and Literature, Pharmacy and Political and Economic Sciences.
There are several specialized schools for the training of nurses, social workers, etc. The 38 trade schools had 23,590 students enrolled during 1945-46. In addition, there are 4 Schools of Arts, and 6 State and 10 Provincial Conservatories of Music. Spain has 46 National Museums which treasure the greatest paintings of all time.
The publishing industry which is highly developed in Spain contributes considerably to the education of the people. In 1945 alone —according to- the “Instituto Nacional de Estadística”—5,591 works were published— 4,263 originals and 1,328 translations. There are 52 radio stations, and the number of registered radio sets as of January, 1947, amounted to 397,904. There are 6,991