I
RSÖ3.4-I
¡tic, í, Bov
/ 1
Pam Amekfcam
World A/rwayx Teacher
TtX FtV,v<?

March-April, 1949
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. V, No. 4
AN AIR VIEW OF SPAIN TODAY
An air trip from America to Spain is a question of hours today. Gone are the days when courage and faith were needed to cross the Atlantic through the skies. The fragile trailblazers of yesteryear can now be seen only in Museums. In their place a new giant of the sky has come along—the Pan American Clipper. Steady, fast, safe, the Clipper wings its way above the clouds —handled by pilots of unsurpassed skill and aided by a hundred instruments which see beyond the horizon along the airship’s course. After short stops at the Azores and Lisbon, Spain lies ahead.
It would be relatively simple to praise the glories of Spain, the great men of letters and science who placed her at the head of the Western World, to recall her political and economic importance, her leadership in the discovery of new continents for the benefit of mankind. That has been done before. Our effort is to bring to you-—the modern air traveler of today—a bit of information which might escape you otherwise, that little something which might be nice to remember before you go to and return from Spain.
Spain has been a. source of inspiration for centuries. Foreigners have never ceased to write about her. Gibbon calls her “the opulent country.” The first travelers went even further in their panegyrics. Strabo will tell you that the Ancients located the Elysian Fields—the abode of the blessed after death—in Andalusia. “There’s a castle in Spain, very charming to see,” wrote Godfrey Saxe, quoting almost exactly Thomas Ravenscroft, XVI century English poet. “Could I transport myself with a wish from one country to another,” wrote Joseph Addison in the XVII century, “I should choose to pass my winter in Spain. . .” The Spaniards themselves were not less enthusiastic about their country. Alfonso the Learned begins his Crónica General with a somewhat extravagant description of Spain, which he says is “like the Paradise of God.” Father Mariana, in his Historia General de España, praises the soil and climate of Spain without discretion, and scores of poets and novelists throughout the centuries have sung with unrestrained enthusiasm the beauty, charm, grace and achievements of the nation.
Spain, of course, is neither an “opulent” nor a poor country, but a nation highly favored by nature in some aspects and castigated in others. Spain enjoys many hours of sunshine, and in her various regions she has a climate and soil which are well suited for nearly everything. She has physical features which raise her to a high level of beauty and splendor. You can go in
By Enrique Portes
but a few hours from regions of perpetual snow and desert-like plateaus to lands scented with orange blossom and covered with graceful palm trees. For Spain is a land of striking contrasts ready to please every one of your tastes.
Whether you wish to .see the old or the new, the great cathedrals and museums or
A gypsy girl of the large colony of gypsies living in Granada.
the flourishing towns and resorts, one thing will impress you most: the people. For in Spain “it is men who are the poems, the pictures and the buildings,” writes W. Somerset Maugham. “In pre-eminence of character,” he continues, “they have been surpassed by none and equalled only by the ancient Romans.”
Spanish exuberant personality has found expression not only in the peninsula itself but wherever Spaniards went—whether it was a new continent to colonize, a new nation to create, or a new people to Christianize. To the Roman Empire, Spain gave emperors, philosophers, and poets; to the Oriental world of Moslem and Jew, she gave welcome and inspiration; to Christian faith, she gave new force and institutions; and to the American continent, she gave her soul and heart.
Where the Sun Always Shines
Spain is generally a broad plateau sloping to south and east and crossed by a series of mountain ranges and river valleys. It is less than ten miles from Africa at the closest point, and separated from France by
the Pyrenees. Most of its coast is steep and rocky, with few indentations. You will find the best harbors on the Galician coast in the north, and the broadest coastal plain on the Gulf of Cadiz in the southwest. The Guadalquivir River in the south is navigable to Seville, but the others, because of the mountain terrain they cross, are of great importance for water-power. Hydroelectric stations account for 75 per cent of Spain’s generating capacity. The abundance of water-power in the northern Basque provinces, for instance, has made possible the great growth of the paper industry.
In school we used to repeat in chorus: “Spain has nine rivers, namely, Miño-, Duero, Tajo', Guadiana, Guadalquivir, Ebro, Turia, Júcar and Segura.” The teacher would explain that they were not really “big” rivers. Spain enjoys more hours of sunshine than any European country, except Italy and Greece. In her various regions, Spain has a climate and soil which favor unlimited cultivation of fruit. She is also a country of bare rocks, steppes, pitiless deserts and desolation. In fact Spain is a country of great contrasts.
Though “Sunny Spain” is not a mere phrase, too much sunshine or too little rainfall presents its problems. There is one area —the Cantabrian mountains in Galicia— where the rainfall is heavy, but the temperature and the mountainous nature of the region militate against agriculture. In the south there are regions where the rain is insufficient to counteract the high degree of evaporation. For example, in the summer the soil of Andalusia exhales five times more humidity than it absorbs. To this phenomenon is due the prolonged drought from which the Spanish countryside often suffers. However, thanks to irrigation the Levante zone has long been one of the most fertile in Europe. At present there are more than 1,500,000 hectares under irrigation.
What is the climate of Spain? Each one of her 27 million inhabitants will tell you something different. The reason is simple: topography. Any text book will tell you, however, that Spain’s weather is extreme. Madrid, for example, reaches a high of 110 degrees and a low of 10 degrees. In the southeast, the protection of the Sierras makes the climate subtropical. Since Spain has so many different kinds of weather, you can choose at any time the one you like best. That is why the Spanish Tourist Office, at 500 Fifth Avenue, in New York City will tell you with enthusiasm: “A visit to Spain is always seasonable, because Spain offers not only the warm sun of its (Continued on Page 5)