Pa\ American
World Airways Teacher	s
Tourists standing in front of gate to small farm home, seeing another example of the decorative use of tile.
March-April, 1949
school are often taken to their courses by a chaperon who returns later to take them home again.
In prewar days, a maid in Lisbon received a monthly wage of about 75 escudos, the equivalent of three United States dollars. A secretary earned about 300 escudos a month or 12 dollars, and a highly skilled workman about 25 escudos or $1 a day. Despite the fact that in Portugal it is possible to exist on such a small sum of money, it certainly is not enough to provide for any of the small comforts which by our standards would usually be considered as bare necessities.
The visiting American however will find a much different Portugal. To him it will be a land of sunshine, beautiful scenery, peasant costumes and customs, decorative village fairs and local wines. Luxury lovers are provided for in first-class hotels and modest purses are not strained by average pension rates. Travelers will delight in shops crammed with national and foreign luxury goods. Sportsmen will enjoy bullfights (the bull is never killed) ; shooting; golf; swimming; yachting; and motoring.
The climate is always unpredictable in Portugal but it is fairly safe to bank on warm, sunny days from February to April, with a steady increase of sun-power to a scorching September. Fall is sometimes broken by October storms but is usually pleasant through November.
The traveler in Portugal will find many things vying for his time and attention. In Lisbon the old and new worlds mingle in a riot of color, noise and picturesque sights. There are narrow, winding streets, slung with gay washing which merge into handsome modern avenues. Donkeys and barefoot fishwives jostle streamlined automobiles. A thousand vistas enchant the eye such as Sao Jorge Castle gilded by the Sun, the gracious roofs and flowery balconies seen from the hills, and fishing junks with orange sails that seem to glide into the heart of the city. One can spend hours in the lovely Jeronimos Monastery, the museum of coaches, the national gallery' and the exotic parks where palm trees and pines grow side by side.
Near-by Estoril, only twenty minutes away by car, offers a smart beach, casino and first-class accommodations. From there it is easy to visit the lovely coast for many miles with its villages set in green hills. Sintra clusters around1 elegant old palaces with huge Moorish chimneys and the lanes drip with lush vegetation through which lemons and orange groves gleam. Famous old castles and ruins abound in the neighborhood, and hotels are simple but excellent. Sao Pedro market brings peasants from miles around and you can buy anything from an antique ring to> a live baby pig.
Within an easy half or whole-day excursion from Lisbon are other beauty spots such as Quelaz whose gardens are a miniature Versailles or Alcobaca and Batalha which are famous for their cathedrals, printed cottons and china. Then there is the walled city of Obidos, Nazare, which is one of the most picturesque fishing villages in the world, and Mafra with its ancient convent. Regular ferries take both passengers
and cars across the Tagus to other beaches and to restaurants famed for their sea food.
From both Estoril and Lisbon fine motor roads lure travelers to see the more distant beauties of Portugal such as the Douro and Minho Regions in the time of the port wine grape harvest or the southern Algarve area in almond blossom and mimosa time. There are also little walled frontier cities, rolling cork forests and olive groves.
SPAIN
(Continued from Page 1)
winter resorts to those who want to escape from wintry mists and fogs but also the cool breezes of its northern beaches to those who seek them in the summer.”
What Mother Earth Does
Spain is an agrarian country, although there are extensive non-arable areas. The principal land uses are for grain, potatoes, pulse, sugar beets, oranges, grapes and olives. There are immense orange groves in compact masses from the mouth of the Ebro to the valley of the Segura. In the Valencia huerta the orange groves are especially dense and produce almost half of the total output of Spain. Olive trees grow in Andalusia where the olive oil industry is very important. Spain exports great quantities of oranges, lemons, almonds, filberts, raisins and other subtropical fruits. Wine production in 1947 was about 500,000,000 gallons.
In industry, Spain has made great progress. The textile industry including the manufacture of chemical fiber for textile purposes, leads all others. It is concentrated in Catalonia and usually employs over 300,000 workers. The production of electrical goods as a result of better utilization of increased electric power, has grown
From Portugal you may travel on to the rest of Europe. Madrid, Paris, Rome, Amsterdam, Brussels or London are all within a few hours by air from Lisbon. Or you can fly on to other continents—Africa, South America, Asia or Australia, for the airways of the world cross at the nation’s capital. But first you will want to become acquainted with Portugal itself—you cannot help but enjoy the experience.
tremendously in recent years. Naval construction has been expanded to a considerable degree. According to a recent report the merchant fleet will reach the 2,000,000 tonnage mark at the end of 1949, and 4,000,000 by 1950. The development of the oil industry has not been overlooked and Spain is confident of obtaining more oil for her domestic use.
Spain is still one of the countries which produce the most lead, being first in Europe in this respect. She is also a great silver-producing country. Today, only Mexico can equal her. In Almaden, Spain has the richest deposits of mercury in the world. Mineral salt is another source of wealth. In addition Spain produces coal, potash, iron, zinc, iron pyrites, phosphates, manganese, cobalt, sulfur and gold.
Spanish forests yield lumber, pine resins, cork and esparto. More than 100,000 persons work in the fishing, canning and related industries. And the paper industry also has a place of its own.
The Paper Industry
Spain is one of the great producers of paper in the world. The bulk of the paper industry is located in the Basque province of Guipozcoa. In Tolosa alone there are six factories. The proximity of the port of Pasajes, and an abundant supply of water power, makes this the ideal region for the production of paper. This is one of the best