Pan Amer f can
8	World Airways Teacher	March-April
CLIPPER AMERICA
JOINS P.A.A. FLEET
Portland, Oregon (SPECIAL)—Pan American World Airways’ on January 31 took delivery from Boeing Airplane Company of the first double-deck, 75 passenger Boeing Stratocruiser-type Clipper. The shiny, blue-striped “Clipper America” was the first of 20 of the new planes which are to join Pan American’s fleet by August of this year.
A. A. Priester, vice president and chief engineer of Pan American, officially took possession of the new airplane at Portland-Columbia Airport, Portland, Oregon, from William M. Allen, Boeing president. A Boeing crew turned the plane over to a Pan American Airways crew there for the remainder of the flight to the Pan American base at San Francisco.
Pan American plans an extensive prepassenger service program for air and ground crew training. Such performance factors as cost of operation under actual airline flight conditions will also be studied. This will involve weeks of simulated airline operations. The first public demonstration of the Clipper America has been scheduled for Washington, D. C. First passenger flights will be between the West Coast and Honolulu and are planned for early April. Subsequently, as additional aircraft are delivered, the new Clippers will go into the Atlantic service of Pan American.
To complete the sale, Mr. Priester handed Mr. Allen a check for more than $1,000,000 as a further payment on the $30,000,000 contract. More than $7,000,000 has been paid to Boeing so far. Each of the new Clippers costs approximately $1,500,000.
“Delivery of the Stratocruiser is a landmark in the advancement of commercial
aviation,” Mr. Allen declared. “Boeing has not spared energy, money or time in designing and building this airplane to make it as nearly perfect as possible.”
“The new Clipper is a tribute to American enterprise, manufacturing and engineering ability,” Mr. Priester commented.
The Stratocruiser, largest commercial land-plane, is the latest member of the famous family of Boeing four-engine bombers and transports. The technical developments and forward strides made in the development of the B-29 and B-50 Superfortresses and C-97 Stratofreighter all are incorporated in the new airplane.
During the 800-hour test program Boeing flight crews and engineers flew the Strato-cruiser over 250,000 miles. The plane has been officially licensed for commercial passenger service by the Civil Aeronautics Administration. Its performance characteristics exceed government standards in many instances.
The Stratocruiser has a normal operating altitude of from 15,000 feet to 25,000 above surface storms and rough air. It is the first commercial transport to be equipped with turbosuperchargers. The Clipper will maintain a sea level cabin altitude up to 15,000 feet and a cabin altitude of only 5,500 feet at 25,000 feet. Its speed is over 300 miles per hour and its payload is approximately 25,000 pounds.
The plane is powered by four Pratt and Whitney 3500 horsepower engines which have General Electric turbosuperchargers. The square-tipped propellers are made by Hamilton Standard.
CLIPPER AMERICA — Franklin Gled-hill, Vice President of Pan American World Airways hands a check for more than $1,000,000 to William Allen, President of the Boeing Airplane Company, as further payment on Pan American’s $30,000,000 contract for 20 Boeing Stratocruisers. The check changed hands at Portland, Oregon January 31, 1949 when Boeing delivered the Clipper America, first of the Strato-cruiser-type Clipper fleet to the company.
The Clipper America was christened in Washington by Margaret Truman. In April it will go into service on the route to Hawaii and Bermuda and in June will begin Transatlantic service to Europe.