Jan.-Feb., 1951
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
11
the tall straight tree trunks, many of which , are smooth and without limbs for a hundred 1 feet or more. Nowhere in the United States is there so vast and inexhaustible a supply of living timber and potential pulp. Trees include western hemlock, Sitka spruce, Alaskan cedar, white spruce, birch and cottonwood.
Present lumber development centers a-round sawmills employed in getting out lumber for local construction piles, lumber for fish traps and piers and some high grade spruce that is exported for airplane stock. Considerable timber is used by settlers, miners and residents for firewood and for their personal use, free of charge. The mills, a few cabinet shops in larger towns and use of lumber by individuals account for practically all the production from Alaskan forests at present. The lumber taken out so far can hardly be missed.
There are great possibilities for pulp mills in Alaska and the government has spent large sums of money getting the timber cruised for this purpose. Many special inducements* such as long-time contracts, paying as cutting proceeds, and other first-come-first-served advantages are expected to attract one or more large paper manufacturers tO' the Territory.
Favorable factors for the industry include water transportation for logs from wood to the mill and for paper from the mill to market ; low logging costs because of readily accessible timber ; high volume per acre ; |and a climate which permits mill operations "and shipping throughout the year. The Government also encourages the establishment of additional sawmills to supply local demand, especially those providing year round operations and using efficient milling methods and first class equipment.
One special feature of the national forest timber area is the abundance of water power in units suitable in size for individual industrial plants. One of the most promising groups of small industries awaiting development is woodworking plants making items entering into' house construction and turning out hundreds of wooden articles for every day use. Alaska will consume increasing amounts of these things.
Manufacturing of furniture should offer excellent opportunities with the greater demand being felt by the influx of many new settlers. There is also- a tremendous potential market for small boats and this industry should be especially promising. Novelty and curio shops are operated in all of the principal towns throughout Alaska, and the sale of trinkets will be enlarged to meet demands of visitors pouring into the country.
Mineral Resources
Gold, although by no means the only metal that comes from Alaskan mines, certainly is the most famous. Stories o-f the Alaskan gold rushes around the turn of the ^century have been told and retold many times. Its flow has not ceased although it is mot publicized as widely as before.
More than a half billion dollars worth of gold have come from Territorial mines during the past half century and it is estimated that much more remains than has yet been taken out. Other minerals in Alaska include copper, silver, platinum, tungsten, lead, tin and coal—another half billion dol-
lars have been obtained for these products; and the surface has barely been scratched.
Most gold mining today is carried on by skilled mineralogists with stocks o-f chemicals and supplies and efficient hydraulic equipment capable of handling more gold ore in a day than old prospectors could handle in a season. However there still are some prospectors with pans and rockers who succumb to the lure of gold and the simple outdoor life.
Some discoveries are pure luck -but by far the greater number are the results of careful surveys by educated and experienced geologists or through prospecting by experienced men. The time has definitely passed when a prospector can afford to go into the field with a working knowledge of gold alone. He might pass up a fortune in other valuable metals or minerals. Short courses in mining are conducted by the University of Alaska at principal cities in the Territory. The University of Washington also offers a prospectors course open without examination to all men past high school age.
A straight line drawn from the extreme tip of southeastern Alaska northwest to Nome bisects the principal known metallic mineral deposit area which extends some two hundred miles on either side of such a line. Mineral springs are found along this same mineral deposit area and also extend into- southern and southwestern Alaska. Much new mining development will be made profitable with the completion of proposed new highways.
Frontier Farming
Alaskan land affords not only minerals but also- has agricultural potentialities. It has a peculiar appeal to the prospective agricultural settler who has inherited an unusual amount of the frontier spirit.
There are several ways to secure a homestead or homesite in the Territory. One may make a direct purchase from someone who has title ; comply with requirements for homesteading; lease acreage; or purchase a homesite from the Government. In general the lands which now offer the best prospects for agricultural settlement will be found in the Tanana River Valley near Fairbanks; in the Cook Inlet; in the Matanuska Valley area of southern Alaska; and on the Kenai Peninsula.
When roads now under construction are completed, it is believed that lands along the eastern shore of Cook Inlet near Homer will be especially desirable, owing to the mildness of the winters, ample rainfall and good agricultural soil. Nearly every homestead in the Homer area has its own coal mine for fuel. There are also millions of acres of potential agricultural land in the Kuskowim and Yukon Valleys which must await road construction before they are accessible.
There has never been much question about the ability of Alaskan soil to produce bountiful crops of grain and produce, or the adaptability of its climate for production o-f poultry and livestock. The question has been one of accessibility of markets. The Mantanuska Valley, where more than 8,000 acres have been cleared and are in cultivation, offers the best market o-f any portion of Alaska. Some of the finest small farms to be seen under the American flag are in this area. Farming is most profitably confined to dairying, poultry, livestock and produce.
The next most highly developed farming area is the Tanana River Valley near Fairbanks. Many beautiful farms dot the Valley and a good local market is available for nearly everything the farm produces.
KOTZEBUE — Twenty miles north of the Arctic Circle Eskimo dancers and musicians display their talents.