Pan AmerrcAN
4	World Airways Teacher	jan. Feb., 1951
working language, and speeches made in any of the three other official languages shall be interpreted consecutively into both working languages. What you hear through your radio or television is usually the simultaneous interpretation.
In addition to the interpreters, who work under a tremendous nerve tension and who must interpret rapidly enough so that the speaker’s voice and gestures coincide with his words in the other languages, the United Nations has five groups of expert translators who translate into the five official languages the proceedings, documents, reports, resolutions, etc. of the Organization. Though working under great pressure, the translators have a little more time than the interpreters and are able, therefore, to do a more accurate job. And it should be so because their work is what finally appears in print and what will eventually be adopted or rejected by the Member States or Governments.
One may ask what is meant by working languages? When the General Assembly uses Spanish, English and French as working languages, it means that all the documents, resolutions, reports, records of the meetings must be put into these three languages immediately and circulated among the delegations for their discussion. If a resolution in Russian is submitted to the General Assembly or its committees, it must be translated immediately into Spanish, French and English which are the working languages of the Assembly. It does not have to be translated into' Chinese because Chinese is not a working language. Of course, it will be eventually translated into that language.
The world battle over language domination started when the League of Nations was formed at the Peace Conference in Versailles. Clemenceau wanted French fo*-the official language; President Wilson insisted that English be put on the same level ; Italy’s Baron Somino claimed that Italian should be considered as important as English. The delegates of Spanish-speaking countries endeavored, in turn, to promote their language, on the basis that Spanish was the mother-tongue of one third of the nations in the League. Finally English and French succeeded.
Although the League of Nations functioned with only two languages, the U. N. uses five: Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish. English and French were originally the working languages of the Organization, but in 1948, by one vote, the General Assembly in Paris adopted Spanish as a working language.
In World War II, as we know, the American, British, Chinese and Russian leaders could speak several languages, but still they could not talk to each other directly, save of course Roosevelt and Churchill. Both Roosevelt and Churchill could speak excellent French but none spoke Russian. Stalin, whose mother-tongue is Georgian (which I am told is as different from Russian as Russian is from English) and understands four or five of the dozens of languages spoken in the Soviet Union, does not speak English; nor does Chiang Kai-shek, who having studied in Tokyo, speaks Japanese. If the war-time leaders of these countries were faced with the problem of languages you can see how at international gatherings the language problem became conspicuously acute.
The System Works
Many devices have been used at international gatherings to overcome the language barrier. Sometimes speeches are written beforehand, translated into the various official languages, mimeographed, and distributed among the delegates. The most important invention used today to facilitate the work at international assemblies is the device variously called the “Filene-Finlay Translator,” the “Microphone System,” or the “Simultaneous-Interpretation System.”
The Bostonian, Edward A. Filene, was the first to advance this novel idea. Later, a British scientist, Gordon Finlay, put it on a practical basis, some 25 years ago at the International Labor Conference. Ever since, the system has been used at most international gatherings. In the Belgium Parliament since 1946, at the Nuremberg trials, at the Ninth International Conference of American States in Bogota and in the United Nations since 1946. At that time, the Simultaneous-Interpretation System was used on a limited scale. In 1947, the General Assembly installed it in combination with a broadcasting system built by IBM, permitting delegates to hear the interpretations over their receivers even when not staying in their seats. Today the receivers are no longer used because of the high cost of maintenance, battery changes and continuous repairs.
Let us see how the simultaneous system works from the very beginning.
The following suggestions are prepared for the delegates when participating in Committee meetings :
1.	The microphones on the tables before members of Committees are “dead” or turned off until the Chairman recognizes a speaker. At that moment the microphone before the speaker is switched on by the technician in the control booth. Consequently, any remarks made by members before recognition by the Chairman will not be “picked up.”
2.	When a member of the Committee speaks into the microphone his voice is carried to the following points :
(a)	The simultaneous interpreters in their sound-proof booths,
(b)	The earphones of the Chairman, other representatives and the public attending the meeting,
(c)	The loud-speakers in the meeting room,
(d)	The radio, television and newsreel services in their sound-proof booths, and
(e)	The recording room where a sound record of representatives’ remarks is made.
In order that the speaker’s voice may be carried to these points, it is essential that he first be recognized by the Chairman and that he speak directly into the microphone. Inasmuch as one microphone may have to be shared by two or even three members, it is necessary for the speaker to make sure, before starting to speak, that the microphone is correctly placed in front of him.
3.	Any papers or books that are allowed to rest on the face of the microphone will naturally prevent the effective pickup of the remarks being made by the speaker.
Now let us start from the moment a delegate speaks into the microphone. At
FROM THAILAND — Phya Sri Dharmadhibes, President of the Thailand Senate, broadcasts in Thai over U.N. radio facilities. When a language other than an official one is used in the Assembly or Council—Thai would be an example—special arrangements are made to interpret into the official languages.