Jan.-Feb., 1951
Pan American
World Alrhavs Teacher
3
WHAT IDIOMA GOVORITIE VOUS, HSIEN-SHENG?*
By Enrique Portes
FROM IRAN — Ambassador NasroIIah Entezam of Iran was elected President of the Fifth Session of the U.N.—the current session which has under consideration the vital Korean question.
The fugitive from a cross word puzzle that makes up our title contains words from the five official languages of the United Nations.
If you should walk along the corridors of the Organization’s buildings and Committee rooms you would hear strange and quaint sounds and picturesque languages spoken by people of many other nations. Inomena Ethni (Greek), Saha-P r a c h a a-C h a a t (Thai), Umoth Meuchadot (Hebrew), Sanyukht Rashstra (Hindi), Perserikatan Gangsa Bangsa (Indonesian), Ku-la-tha-me-ga (Burmese), Lien-ho-kuo (Chinese), Obiedinennye Natsii (Russian), Nations Unies (French), Naeiones Uniclas (Spanish) and United Nations (and here I take the liberty of letting you guess it).
Are they not quaint sounds? Ka-la-tha-me-ga, it seems to me, would be fitting for a pretty girl, and Bangsa Bangsa for a husky fellow named Brown. Anyway, getting into the more serious phase of the language problem I would not go as far as to say—as some are inclined to believe—that unfriendliness among men—or nations, for that matter—is largely due to linguistic differences. Those who have traveled extensively abroad may know the answer better than I can. But I refuse to admit that differences of language lead to antipathy, intolerance, hatred, conflict and bloodshed. I agree however with those who point out that friendly contacts, the amenities of social life, the communication and satisfaction of needs are often precluded by lack of linguistic understanding.
One thing is definitely important in this age of the airplane, radio and television: we must learn more languages. Travel time between English-speaking New York and French-speaking Paris, Spanish-speaking Santiago de Chile, Portuguese-speaking Rio, German-speaking Berlin, or Russian-speaking Moscow is no longer reckoned in days but in hours. For many a traveler the language barrier certainly constitutes a problem.
How to solve this problem? Some advocate the merits of Esperanto and make a very good case of its use as an international language. They say, for instance, that verbs in all forms have only 13 inflections in Esperanto as against 3,000 in French, 1,200 in Portuguese and 1,000 in Spanish. They claim that in Esperanto each letter has one sound only, and every sound is represented by only one letter, and words are pronounced as they are spelled and are spelled phonetically. The Esperanto Dictionary—writes Mr. Alfonso Correa, a member of the Esperanto Association of North America, contains only roots, not complete words “The root-word instru,” he explains, “can become instruo (instruction), instruct (instructive), instrue (instructively), instruisto (teacher), instruistimo (woman teacher), instrui (to teach), and so on.”
If it is not Esperanto, what language then? Mr. Mario A. Pei, Associate Professor of Romance Languages at Columbia, has suggested an international tongue. “A
* What language speak you, Sir?
world commission of qualified linguists,” he points out, “could be appointed, with the proportional representation from each country on the basis of adult literate population. It would have the precise mission of selecting from among the world’s 2,796 natural and 500-odd artificial languages, the tongue destined to serve for international purposes.”
Mr. Pei goes on to say that the language commission could select any language, famous or obscure, natural or artificial, easy or difficult (though these two terms are relative) with the assurance that that language could be imparted with equal ease, in spoken form, to the new generations. With regard to the written form, English or Russian or French, if selected, would have to change its spelling, at least for international use, so as to acquire perfect correspondence between sound and written symbol. If English were chosen, for instance, it would be spelled phonetically, for international use, but retain its present orthography for use in the Anglo-Saxon countries.
The fact that the language problem has always been present in the minds of linguists and internationally minded scholars indicates how important it is and explains the great many efforts attempted to solve it. So far only mechanical means have been devised to solve it immediately. I shall try to give you an idea on this subject.
Sixty Nations
How can the sixty Member States of the United Nations understand one another?
Can the five U. N. official languages serve the entire world?
It is being tried. The United Nations is aware that Chinese is spoken by nearly 450 million people, English by over 250 million, Russian by nearly 200 million, Spanish by over 100 million, and French by at least 70 million plus large colonial populations. German, Italian, Portuguese, Hindustani, Japanese, Bengali, Malay, Arabic, each of which has over 50 million speakers can also become eventually official languages of the Organization.
Here is a fascinating field for the linguists of today and tomorrow. At present the U. N. handles the five official languages with considerable ease. In the first place, the Organization has interpreters and translators who do the work from one or two languages into one or two others. The interpreters can be divided into those who interpret simultaneously, that is, the interpretation takes place at the same time the speaker is talking, and those who do the interpretation consecutively, that is, immediately after the speaker has finished his speech. You have heard this on radio and television.
In the Security Council, according to its Rules of Procedure, English, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish are official languages, but only English and French are the working languages. This means that speeches made in either of the working languages shall be interpreted immediately after the speaker has finished his speech— though it is interpreted simultaneously into the other official languages—into the other