8
Pan Amm rcan
World Airways Teacher
Jan.-Feb., 1951
118. Neo-Classic Movement of the 18th Century (2 units)
Recent research has disclosed new information on the importance of this period. The French impact and the native Spanish reaction.
121.	Spanish Drama in the 19th and 20th Centuries—Written Report (3 units)
A survey course studying the most prominent playwrights and their works.
122.	The Spanish Novel—Written Report (3 units)
An orientation course. Will provide fundamental knowledge and act as a guide for further study.
123.	Painting and Music in the 19th and 20th Centuries (2 units)
A study of the main artists and their works.
124.	Spain and America (2 units)
An historical study of the relations between Spain and America and subsequent effects on their respective cultures.
125.	Studies in Catalan Culture (2 units)
A survey course in the rich civilization produced by the Catalan people.
COURSES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF LILLE
Lille, France’s industrial giant of the north, has one of the outstanding Universities in Europe. The University of Lille dominates thè entire northern part of France and has always been very active in the international aspect of higher education. Situated as it is close to the Channel coast and to the Lowlands, it has easy communication with the latter and with the British Isles.
The courses will be held at the traditional site, Boulogne-Sur-Mer, France’s most popular vacationing channel resort. Boulogne-Sur-Mer is but three hours to Paris, one hour to Ostend, and overnight by ship to London. Since medieval times it has been the chief port between England and France. Boulogne is a fascinating metropolis replete with historical significance.
I.	Lower Division Courses
4A. Elementary French Grammar (2 units)
Instruction in English. A complete course in the mechanics of the language. 4B. Elementary Conversation (2 units) Will follow content of 4A. Same instructor.
5A. Intermediate French Grammar (2 units)
A thorough review of the fundamental principles of grammar. Written and oral exercises.
5B. Intermediate Conversation (2 units) Will follow content of 5A. Same instructor.
8A. History of the French Nation, Social and Political Survey (2 units)
An elementary French textbook will be used. Discussion will be in English.
II.	Upper Division Courses
108A. Advanced Grammar (2 units) Intensive course in Grammar. Emphasis on acquiring facility in composition. 108B. Advanced Conversation (2 units) Complementary course to IOSA. Intensive practice each day to acquire facility in oral expression.
127.	Regionalism in French Literature (2 units)
A lecture class surveying the contributions of the provinces to the main stream of French Literature.
128.	A Study of French Economy (2 units)
Historical development and present-day status. A study of geography, agriculture, industry, commerce, modern problems, ECA and France, etc.
129.	Nineteenth Century Poetry (2 units) A study of the principal figures and their works.
130.	French Realism and Naturalism (2 units)
A survey course of these two movements in the nineteenth century.
131.	Readings in Old French Literature (2 units)
A study of the Chanson de Roland, of Aucassin et Nicollette and of Yvain.
COURSES AT UNIVERSITY OF TOULOUSE
Among the very earliest provincial universities to be founded soon after Paris was that of Toulouse. It early gained an excellent reputation as a medieval center of learning and today with Paris and Lille forms part of a leading triumvirate of France’s magnificent system of university education.
Toulouse is one of the largest cities in France and offers ample cultural opportunities for the student. The first two weeks of classes will be held at Toulouse, the remaining four will be held at Nice on the Cote d’Azur, the beautiful French Riviera, close to Cannes, Marseilles, and other world famous Mediterranean resorts.
I.	Lower Division Courses
4A. Elementary French Grammar (2 units)
Instruction in English. A complete course in the mechanics of the language. 4B. Elementary Conversation (2 units) Will follow content of 4A. Same Instructor.
5A. Intermediate French Grammar (2 units)
A thorough review of the fundamental principles of grammar. Written and oral exercises.
5B. Intermediate Conversation (2 units) Will follow content of 5A. Same instructor.
8A. History of the French Nation, Social and Political Survey (2 units)
An elementary French textbook will be used. Discussion will be in English.
II.	Upper Division Courses
108A. Advanced Grammar (2 units) Intensive course in Grammar. Emphasis on acquiring facility in composition. 108B. Advanced Conversation (2 units) Complementary course to 108A. Intensive practice each day to acquire facility in oral expression.
122.	The Renaissance in France (2 units)
A study of such men as Marot, Rebe-lais, Villon, Calvin, and Marguerite d’Angouleme, La Pleiade, Montaigne.
123.	Moliere—Racine and the 17th century French classicism (2 .units) Readings in the dramas of Moliere and
Racine, 3 or 4 plays of each one. Readings on background leading to classicism of 17th century.
124.	The Nineteenth Century Novel (2 units)
A study of the works of Balzac, Stendhal, Flaubert and Zola.
125.	History of the Fine Arts in France (2 units)
Music, painting, architecture and sculpturing.
128. A Study of French Economy (2 units)
Historical development and present-day status. A study of geography, agriculture, industry, commerce, modern problems, ECA and France, etc.
REGISTRATION AND TUITION
The registration fee is 15 dollars, the tuition is 60 dollars. This sum covers the expenses for the academic program and entitles the student to register for six units of work. In some cases an additional unit (total of seven) will be allowed.
The registration fee is non-refundable once received. The tuition fee is refundable up to midnight of May 14, 1951, as on May 15 contract obligations with the Summer Faculties go into effect. However, due to the international situation, should our State Department declare it unsafe for Americans to travel to Europe this Summer, the tuition fee will be refunded even after May 15.
Those registering for Paris make payment to the Sorbonne American Institute of Summer Sessions. Those registering for Barcelona, Lille, or Toulouse make payment to the Richelieu Institute of University Studies Abroad. The address for both institutes is 231 Peck Drive, Beverly Hills, California.
The Director General of the Institutes is Dr. Michael A. Otero.
Tours and Accommodations
Through Exprinter Travel Service, 500 Fifth Avenue, New York City, several itineraries and one price all-expense tours with transportation via Pan American World Airways, will be offered to members of the Summer Schools Abroad.
All accommodations at the official Universities dormitories will be handled through the Director General’s Office.
SAN MARCOS, LIMA
Universidad Nacional Mayor De San Marcos School of Special Studies Courses for the Fourth Centenary of the Foundation of the University of San Marcos
Information furnished by the university.
1.	Winter Course (January 15-March 15, 1951) offers the following subjects:
Spanish (Advanced)
Peruvian Economic Geography Peruvian Human Geography History of the Latin American Culture (with emphasis in the Peruvian Culture).
The cost for this course will be US$75.
2.	Summer Course (July 2-August 16) offers the following subjects:
Spanish (Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced)