Jan.-Feb., 1951
COURSES of STUDY
Summer sessions at the Sorbonne, the University of Lille, the University of Toulouse and the University of Barcelona.
The descriptions of courses at summer sessions as given below were supplied by the Sorbonne American Institute of Summer Studies (for the Sorbonne) and the Richelieu Institute of University Studies abroad (for Lille, Toulouse and the University of Barcelona). Inquiries may be addressed to the institutes, or to Expj'inter Travel Service, addresses of which are given at the conclusion of this compilation.
COURSES AT THE SORBONNE
All courses will offer 30 hours of instruction for 2 units (credits) according to traditional standards in American colleges and universities. Where independent research work is done outside of class, written up and turned in to the instructor, an additional unit will be allowed. This, however, will be limited to the few courses which lend themselves to ready research.
Six units will constitute a full program.
I.	Lower Division Courses
4A. Elementary Grammar (2 units) Beginners course. Emphasis on the principles of grammar, the mechanics of the language. Instruction in English.
4B. Elementary Conversation (2 units) This course intended for those enrolled in 4A. Will supplement the mechanics with practice in conversation. Given by the same instructor for 4A.
SA.	Intermediate Grammar (2 units) Major emphasis on a thorough review of the fundamental principles of French grammar. Gradually more time devoted to oral and written expressions.
For those having one year (6 semester hours), or two years of High School French.
SB.	Intermediate Conversation (2 units) Intended for those enrolled in 5A. Will follow content of 5A, topics and vocabulary planned accordingly.
8A. French Civilization (2 units) Lectures in English. An orientation course on the entire panorama of French culture, history, literature, politics, social and economic studies, etc. This course has been extremely successful for more than 30 years under the able leadership of M. Henri Goy.
II.	Upper Division Courses
108A. Advanced Grammar, Oral and Written (2 units), Composition, Syntax.
Rapid and intensive review of the fundamental principles of grammar with major emphasis on practice in writing and speaking, a functional approach to the language.
108B. Advanced Conversation, phonetics (2 units)
Intended for those enrolled in 108A or those meeting the prerequisites for 108A. Some attention will be given to phonetics.
111. Intensive Advanced Composition, Grammar and Syntax (3 units)
Pa tv AifFRFOiisf
Won io Am ways Teac/í/ñ
Intended primarily for teachers. A general review course in composition and syntax. Emphasis on writing and speaking idiomatic French. Study of style. Daily drill in composition. Limited to 15 persons per class.
Basic prerequisite, 3 years (18 semester hours) of College French. A written report will be required of each member, the topic to be approved by the instructor.
112. Main Currents of French Literature (2 units)
An orientation course offering a general view of the literature of France for students who desire or need such direction as an aid to further study. Open to both graduates and undergraduates.
117.	The First Half of the 17th Century (3 units). Written report required. Study of French literature from 1600 to 1660. Recent research by the most distinguished French scholars in this field has modified considerably the traditional views formerly held on this period. Thus this course must necessarily be given in France by the only authorities competent to give it.
118.	A Re-Evaluation of the 18th Century (3 units). Written report required. Again recent research by French scholars throws new light on the most important of centuries for France. This course will be valuable even for those who have had some study in this period.
119.	The Second Half of the 19th Century (3 units)
Written report required. Essentially a stpdy of French Naturalism (Realism) and French Symbolism. The period will be broken down into two movements, after 1885 a reaction setting in towards positivism and determinism.
120.	The First Half of the Twentieth Century (3 units)
Written report required. A study of contemporary France.
III.	Graduate Division
200. Advance Diction (3 units)
Limited to 15 students per class. Intensive practice in reading, speaking and pronunciation with a view of acquiring superior command of French sounds and thus leading to accomplished recitation. Written report on special research work in diction. Intended for teachers.
211.	French Literature Criticism (3 units)
Lecture class. A detailed study of the role and function and the forms of criticism as seen in the writings of Boileau, Voltaire, Diderot, St. Beuve, and Baudelaire. Examination of relation between author and critic. Written report on modern critics from Ville-main to Thibaudet.
212.	Modern French Poetry (3 units)
A study of the most recent works and of their authors with as much personal contact as possible between them and the class members.
GRADUATE COURSES NUMBERED IN 200 SERIES NOT OPEN TO UNDERGRADUATES.
7
COURSES AT THE UNIVERSITY OF BARCELONA
Barcelona, the largest city in Spain and in the Mediterranean, with a population of one and one half millions, is also one of Europe’s main industrial and commercial centers. It is the seat of the magnificent University of Barcelona whose origin is traced back to the latter part of the XIII century. On September 1, 1300, it was legally established by Jaime II and by a papal bull of Boniface VIII. It has always been, as today, one of Europe’s outstanding universities, having the tremendous support of the powerful region of Cataluña.
His Excellency, the Rector, Enrique Luno Pena, will preside over the Summer School and the direction will be in the experienced and expert hands of the distinguished Mariano Bassols de Climent, Director of the Summer School of the University for many years.
The first three weeks of the Summer Session will be held at one of Europe’s most elegant seaside resorts, Sitges, situated on the Costa Brava and only a half hour from Barcelona. The second three weeks will be held on the beautiful Island of Palma de Mallorca in the Balearics, overnight by ship from Barcelona.
On the Summer Faculty will be the following distinguished men: D. Agustín del Saz, catedrático del Instituto “Ausias March”, de Barcelona; D. Antonio M. Badia Mar-garit, catedrático de la Universidad de Barcelona; D. M. Bassols de Climent, catedrático de la Universidad de Barcelona; D. Cayetano Alcazar; D. Martin Almagro, D. Jose V. Amoros; D. Jose M. Castro Calvo; D. P. Font y Puig; D. Felipe Mateu; D. Jose M. Millas Vallicrosa; D. Francisco Mirabent; D. Antonio Palomeque; D. Luis Pericot; D. Eduardo Perez Agulo; D. Martin de Riquer; D. Jaim Vicens Vives; D. Antonio Vilanova, etc.
I.	Lower Division Courses
4A. Elementary Spanish Grammar (2 units)
A complete course in the fundamental principles of Spanish grammar.
4B. Elementary Spanish Conversation (2 units)
Will follow the contents of 4A. Same instructor.
5A. Intermediate Spanish Grammar (2 units)
A complete review of the mechanics of the language. Written and oral exercises.
5B. Intermediate Spanish Conversation (2 units)
Will follow the contents of 5A. Same instructor.
8A. Spanish Civilization (2 units)
A survey course of the entire panorama of Spanish culture. Explanations in English.
II.	Upper Division Courses
108A. Advanced Spanish Grammar (2 units)
Intensive and rapid review of the main parts of grammar. Main emphasis on written and oral exercises.
108B. Advanced Spanish Conversation (2 units)
Will follow the contents of 108A. Same instructor.