Pan American
World Airways	Teacher Jan-Feb., 1951
away. Many lakes are alive with scrappy northern pike while others yield various species of trout some weighing up to sixty pounds.
Along the shore line, salmon, halibut and other salt-water fish are found in great numbers. King salmon have been known to reach a weight of 125 pounds. Late spring, summer, and early fall are the best times to fish, although the season in most of the Territory is not defined by statute.
For many years commercial fishing has been Alaska’s principal industry. Fisheries employ over one quarter of a million people and pay about four fifths of the annual Territorial taxes. During the summer fishing season nearly everybody along Alaska’s coast line engages in some phase of the fishing industry.
Many persons otherwise employed have arrangements with their employers that enable them to take advantage of the considerable returns enjoyed by those that fish commercially or work in processing plants during the short thirty-to-ninety day net and trap season. Many own their own fishing gear and boats, while others fish for canneries on a percentage basis. Naturally income varies with prevailing prices and the amount of catches but very often individual fishermen earn several thousand dollars in one season.
The most important food fish in Alaska is the salmon which abounds along the southern and southeastern coasts. Besides salmon, herring and halibut are the principal food fish taken in Territorial waters, although clams, crabs, shrimp and other miscellaneous fishes such as cod and flounder are also present.
Fleets of halibut boats, fully manned and with ice facilities for preserving the catch leave Seattle and Alaska ports each year
for the abundant halibut grounds in the straits, bays and inlets along Alaska’s coast and in the Gulf of Alaska. Fish weighing over a hundred pounds have even been caught with rod and reel from the docks of coastal towns.
Halibut is sold fresh or quick frozen and shipped to markets throughout the world. A rapidly expanding market for fresh fish, owing to the quick marketing facilities made possible by air transportation is opening up vast new fields in the Alaskan fishing industry.
Hunting—Sport And Business
Hunting vies with fishing for the attention of visiting'sportsmen. The huge Alaska brown bear is one of the outstanding big-game animals and the most sought-after as a trophy. Specimens have been taken with skins eleven and one-half feet square, and with skulls that measure some nineteen inches in length by twelve inches in width.
The grizzly is next in importance as a trophy with black bear the easiest specie to obtain.
The Alaska moose is next in order to the bears in interest to hunters. It is the largest of the deer family on earth, the bulls attaining a weight of more than 1,400 pounds. They often have an antler spread of 70 inches, with spread of 15 to 18 inches, and with upwards of twenty points to the side. Other animals include the caribou, blacktailed deer, shaggy white mountain goats, mountain sheep, elk, muskox, bison and yak. The last four animals have been imported and permission to hunt them will not be given until the animals have multiplied in sufficient numbers.
Game birds, ducks, geese and other wild fowl are also abundant. As with fishing, spring, summer and early fall are the best times of the year for hunting.
Hunting means business to many Alaskans. From the time of its discovery in 1741 furs have been one of the Territory’s principal exports. In fact, it was the glowing accounts of the abundance and variety of fur bearing animals brought back by venturesome Siberian traders which brought the first exploiters and settlers to Alaska. The chief prize sought by early explorers and traders was the lustrous fur of the sea otter. These animals together with fur seals were almost slaughtered to extinction. Finally breeding stock was placed under rigid Government protection by the United States years after it had acquired Alaska.
Other fur animals include mink, marten, land otter, weasel, fox, lynx, muskrat, beaver and many more. Their fur is the basis of the major part of the income of hundreds of native Indians, Eskimos and Aleuts, as well as many white trappers.
While many of these trappers have developed other ways of supplementing their livelihoods, trapping, hunting and fishing must be the mainstay of their existence for many years to come. Fur trapping affords seasonal employment for nearly 20,000 people and provides more than two million dollars in income.
Many homesteaders and old timers as well as professional trappers measure good times by the number and prices of the furs taken. Throughout central and north-central Alaska are many trappers who have other vocations. Some are civil engineers, some doctors and many are well qualified to make a living in other ways. They still prefer trapping.
The most valuable fur bearing animal is the mink. There are five species of foxes which produce almost as much revenue as all other fur animals combined. Then there are muskrats, marten or sable, land otter and weasels, the source of ermine. Government bounties are paid for the trapping of wolves and coyotes.
Periodic shortages do occur in the supply of fur animals and this situation has encouraged the establishment of fur farms. In addition to the fur crop, breeding animals are sold each year to purchasers all over the world. About half the fur farmers are more interested in minks than in other animals while silver foxes are next in importance. Ranchers are also experimenting with marten, beaver, fox, land otter, fitch, raccoon and muskrat.
Lumber And The Future
Alaskan forests are important to the country as the basis of a lumber industry. This industry’s expansion during recent years has caused many to believe that lumber and its associated products offer a solution to much of the development problem of Alaska.
It is difficult to provide roads and other transportation facilities to support agricultural development or stock raising without a permanent population of sufficient size to absorb the increased output of the farms and ranches and to help pay for the upkeep of those roads. Lumber industries could easily supply a good share of that permanent population. One of the most impressive experiences in the whole country is to stand in a thickly wooded coastal forest and look up and down the ridges at the tremendous array of huge trees, or to gaze upward af