Pan American
Wo bid Airwave Teacher	Jan.-Feb., 1951
Tab American
^ World Alrwaye Teacher
Published as a serznce to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 19 51, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
In Atlantic City February 16 and 17—at the time of the big meeting of the American Association of School Administrators—the National Council for Educational Travel will hold its third full scale meeting.
The NCET represents all agencies and individuals who are interested in educational travel. It began with a “planning conference” at the University of Indiana in November, 1949, had an organization meeting at Atlantic City in February 1950, and met again at Western State College, Macomb, 111. in October, 1950.
The members of the group include students, teachers, professors and educational administrators, tour organizers, travel agents, representatives of educational associations, school systems, colleges and universities, and representatives of transportation companies.
Those who attended the meetings mentioned above found the contact with others interested in educational travel helpful, and regarded the meetings as an exceptional opportunity to work out problems with others in related fields. That is one purpose of the NCET—to provide a clearing house where the travel agent can meet the teacher tour organizer, and both of them can talk to the school administrator who can wield influence with respect to academic credit for educational travel, etc. etc.
In addition, the NCET is taking a more direct approach to the academic credit phase by promoting the idea of giving such credit to universities, school systems and state education departments. It is undertaking a research program looking toward solution of problems involved in the organizing of tours, selection of tour organizers, planning of educational travel projects here and abroad, and, what may be most important of all, finding ways and means of reducing the cost of travel so that more persons may avail themselves of its advantages.
Since the AASA meetings attract upwards of 10,000 educators, many who read these words must be planning to attend these sessions. Those interested in travel (and who isn’t ?) are cordially invited by the NCET to attend its meetings. The first is scheduled for 7 p.m. on Friday, February 16 at the Shelburne Hotel, and the session will continue the following morning in Room 10 of the Atlantic City Auditorium.
About Denmark
In the article “Scandinavia in the Air Age” (World Airways Teacher, October, 1950) we managed to incorporate two grave injustices to Denmark. His Excellency, Henrik Kauffman, the Danish Ambassador, has set us straight and we quote from his letter:
“On page 12, column 3, it is stated that ‘Denmark and Sweden were able to preserve official neutrality during the Second World War’. The fact is that Denmark was invaded by Germany on April 9, 1940. Because of the geographical structure of the country Denmark was able to resist this violent act of aggression for only a short time. The Germans, professing that their flagrant violation of Denmark’s neutrality was occasioned purely by the need to forestall an Allied Act of Aggression, left the Danish Government a certain measure of independence in home affairs to begin with. Under steadily increasing Danish resistance against the Germans the Danish Government in 1943 refused to concede to German demands, i.e., of acts of retaliation against the Resistance Movement, and ceased to function, and Denmark was left without Government under German occupation until the liberation in May 1945. The underground Resistance Movement gained steadily in strength and effectiveness during the war, so that at the liberation Field-Marshal Montgomery could state that the Danish Resistance Movement was ‘second to none’.
“On the same page in your publication it is said with a reference to the Atlantic Pact that ‘Only Denmark the smallest of the three countries and the nearest to the heart of Europe, decided to try once again to form no alliance outside of the Scandinavian Peninsula’. This is not correct. Denmark and Norway are among the original members of the North Atlantic Pact.”
Alaska
In the north of Alaska stretches 100,000 square miles of Arctic land. Four thousand Eskimos cling to a fringe of this ice and snow depending upon the water for their livelihood. From this source they obtain food; driftwood for fires and building material ; and creatures of the sea which afford skin for waterproof clothing and bones for use as ribs in skin boats. In the fall birds and trapping supplement their food supplies.
The three hundred white people living in this region are, for the most part, members of the Alaskan Native Service (teachers, doctors and nurses). Over-the-pole activities of the Air Force have resulted in the stationing of personnel on the Arctic rim
and the erection of suitable installations. A chain of landing fields is spreading farther and farther throughout the Arctic allowing many travelers to get their first glimpses of this Northland. A typical town is Kotzebue, above the Arctic Circle, on the shores of the Arctic Ocean. It is primarily an Eskimo town where travelers meet visiting natives from all along the Arctic coasts as well as from the Little Diomede Island which is only three miles from Russian held territory.
Miss Lou A. Phillips, whose by-line must be very familiar now to regular readers of World Airways Teacher, tells us about Alaska and about aviation activities, in this issue. Page One.
PAA Load Event
The angular young men above are a cartoonist’s conception of the “occupants” who man the specially designed pay load models flown in PAA Load Event, sponsored by Pan American World Airways.
PAA Load Event is for free flight gas models carrying payloads.
Its purpose is to provide in model flying a contest that will bring out the basic purpose of aviation itself—which is to carry a load, whether persons, mail, cargo, or military load. Full scale commercial airplanes carry payloads to earn revenue; model airplanes in PAA Load Event carry payload to qualify for prizes.
PAA Load Event was introduced at the 1948 NATIONALS. In 1949 and 1950 it was conducted at numerous local and regional events, and was featured at the Olathe and Dallas Nationals.
The new thing in PAA Load Event this year is a competition for Class k^A (models powered with engines not exceeding .050 cubic inches displacement). Contests for the larger Classes A and B will be continued.
For details, write to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, New York.