Jan.-Feb., 1951
Pan AmerrCA N
World Airways Teacher
9
History of Peruvian Culture Peruvian Archaeology History of the University of San Marcos
History of Philosophical Evolution in Peru through the University of San Marcos.
In addition to the regular courses, the Summer School curriculum offers afternoon and all day excursions to points of interest in and near Lima; evening lectures by prominent Peruvian cultural leaders; concerts of Peruvian music; planned social activities, etc., all within the basic charge. In spite of the fact that the classes will be dictated in Spanish, students will be provided with English resumes of the Courses.
The complete cost of the course, which includes matriculation, tuition, excursions, and the certificate of studies presented by the School at the termination of the course valued for credit in the States-—will be US$105.00.
The School will cooperate in arranging trips to places of interest throughout Peru (on the coast, to the mountains or to the jungles) during the Independence holidays, (July 27-July 31) or after the end of the Course.
3. Revalidation Course (Sept. 15-Dec. 15) offers the following courses.
Spanish
Peruvian Literature Peruvian Geography Peruvian History Peruvian Economy
This Revalidation Course is required for all foreign students who wish to revalidate their degree, or matriculate as post-graduate students in the regular school.
The cost of this course is US$105.00, plus US$25.00, to revalidate the degree. Although all the courses are presented in Spanish, a fluent knowledge of the language is not essential. Consequently, there is no language, age or special entrance requirements.
A special scholarship will be offered to any tour conductor bringing a minimum of fifteen students.
The School will assist students in finding room and board. At present, the cost for room and board in a good Peruvian home is about US$60.00 to $70.00, a month.
In the past it has been our experience that American students have been able to secure part-time work instructing the many Peruvian students and professional people who are interested in learning the English language.
In commemoration of the Fourth Centenary, the University has been granted an additional subsidy by the Government to be kused in the different programs that our Institution will hold during the year 1951.
Inquiries regarding the San Marcos summer session may be addressed directly to the university in Lima, or, if you prefer, you may write to the Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, who will forward your inquiry to a travel organizer in your locality.
JUNEAU — Alaska is not all ice and snow. Especially in the panhandle, beautiful flower gardens like this are the rule, not the exception, in spring and summer.
ALASKA
(Continued from Page 1)
hap. These pilots fly all kinds of things into places available only by plane. They take food, medicine and antitoxin into isolated regions and bring out the sick and wounded needing hospitalization. They drop prospectors and trappers down on inland lakes at the beginning of the season and return for them when the season ends. They transport vital mining machinery and tools to inland camps, and make in a matter of hours a trip that by other means would require weeks or months. They fly Eskimo workers from their homes in the north country to the salmon canneries along the coast to alleviate labor shortages, and then fly them back when the season is ended. Their planes are now commonplace in many remote villages and are accepted' nonchalantly by everyone.
Scheduled airline service to Alaska was pioneered by Pan American World Airways. As early as 1932 Pan American acquired certain airlines in the Territory and proceeded to develop an Alaskan service with bases at Fairbanks, Anchorage and Nome and agents at various other points along the Yukon and Kuskowim Rivers and on the Seward Peninsula. After interior operations were integrated and a basic pattern for a trunk system established, service was extended to southeastern Alaska. In 1940 semi-weekly flights linked the Territory to Seattle.
To accomplish this task Pan American had to establish their own communications and meteorological facilities and very often their own seaplane bases and later airports. For twenty-three months during World War II the Alaskan service was operated
under Navy contract. More than 3,170,000 pounds of freight and 77,150 passengers were flown speedily and safely to- and from points in the Territory. Flying Clippers also blazed airways over the Aleutians and made special flights to Arctic regions around Point Barrow where the Navy had undertaken a survey of undeveloped oil resources. Since the end of the war Alaskan freight and passenger traffic has radically expanded. Today no point in the Territory served by Pan American is more than seven and a half hours away from Seattle and connections to off-line points are available via Territorial airlines.
Regular dependable air transportation has knit Alaska more closely together and has stimulated the interest of people in the United States concerning the country. Ever increasing thousands are taking advantage of the splendid air facilities not only to travel to- and from the Territory but to travel within the Territory. For now it is possible to' reach isolated districts in an hour or so, in ease and safety, whereas half a century ago such trips required weeks of hazards and hardship.
Fishing For Fun And Profit
Behind each of Alaska’s recreational resources lie natural resources which play vital roles in the country’s economy. Fishermen describe the land’s waters as the nearest thing to heaven. It is almost impossible to exaggerate the size or numbers of fish that may be caught in any one of the hundreds of streams and lakes.
A setting of indescribable grandeur adds zest to fresh-water fishing. On both sides rise majestic mountains, crystal-clear streams swish along and lakes glitter like mirrors in the sun. As anglers approach, deer, moose, beavers, ducks and other wild creatures can be glimpsed as they scurry