12
Although the demand for meat far exceeds the local supply, cattle and sheep raising have not progressed to any great extent. This is mainly because nowhere in Alaska can Government owned land be purchased in sufficient acreage to enable cattle production on a profitable basis. Land can be leased for twenty years but in view oi the considerable investment required for cattle ranching this is not recommended.
Alaska possesses hundreds of square miles suitable for ranching if such land could be privately owned, fenced, proper shelter provided for livestock and predatory animals destroyed. The best opportunity for cattle raising, when and if the Government decides to sell land to- individuals in sufficient blocks for successful ranching, appears to be from Anchorage north along the Alaska Railroad about 1,700 to 2,000 miles from Seattle.
At present southeastern Alaska is so near Seattle that meat can be imported cheaper than it can be produced locally, owing to the Territory’s higher wage scale and limited pasture.
Cities And The Land Around Them
One third of the Alaskan population of 30,000 people live in the southeastern strip of the Territory which is tightly sandwiched between the Pacific Ocean and British Columbia and known as the Panhandle. Until the advent of the airplane, it was the most frequently visited section of Alaska. Now however even the deep mysteries of the remote Arctic are receding before air transportation.
Although the Panhandle is only one-seventh the size of the Territory it has the greatest concentration of population, political power, industry and wealth. It is an area of vertical scenery with mountains rising dramatically out of the sea.
Between this part of Alaska and British Columbia are more than fifty jagged peaks, most of them towering between one and two miles into the sky. Flat land is at a premium and farms are practically non-existent. A kitchen garden fifty feet square is considered big and most garden products must be shipped in from Seattle. Every island and all the mountains in this area are covered with trees and underbrush of almost tropical density to their timberlines.
Ketchikan and Juneau, the two largest cities in Alaska are in the Panhandle. Ketchikan is four hours by air from Seattle; it takes two hours to fly on to Juneau. Ketchikan with a population of 4,695 is almost a vertical town, built on terraces on the sides of a mountain and is picturesque any season of the year. It has houses perched on stilts, waterfalls practically in the center of the city, totem poles, curio shops filled with native handiwork, a harbor full of fishing boats and screaming seagulls by the millions. It has the energy and pep of a community three times its size with industries that afford a robust year-round livelihood. There are canneries, cold storage plants, a fishing fleet and an important sawmill.
Juneau, the capital of Alaska, was built on gold. It soared to extravagant heights when surrounding mines dug out millions of dollars of the precious metal. A combination of the transfer of the capital from Sitka to Juneau, an annual abundance of salmon and the continuance in business of
Pam American
World Airways Teacher
one gold mine that employed a thousand men kept it in business.
Today Juneau is a government town with a permanent population of about 5,800. It is the center for federal offices and the territorial government. A distribution center for the upper part of the Panhandle, it is visited by many travelers who stop off whether they go by air or steamer. The city has all the requisites for good living and the big tourist trade now starting is making itself evident. Its beautiful Baranof Hotel would do credit to a city three times the size in the States.
Sitka is the oldest and most romantic community in Alaska, It still has relics of the past when it blossomed as the capital of Russian America. Although activity declined after government offices were moved to Juneau, fishing, cannery operations and cold storage facilities brought the town to life again and gave it a new steady income.
During World War II Sitka was picked as the site of a $2,000,000 naval air base. Nearly $40,000,000 were poured into military construction with weekly payrolls often reaching $10,000. After the war Sitka reverted to its unhurried ways and former defense installations were turned over to the Alaskan Native Service for use in native vocational training. Two of the special attractions of Sitka are the totem poles arranged artistically in a woodland setting known as “Lovers Lane” and the beautiful Russian Cathedral of St. Michael, the most historic Greek orthodox church in America.
The mountain range bordering the Panhandle continues westward into south central Alaska splitting into two chains. One follows the coast and the other follows an arc, north and west, for four hundred miles until it reaches Mt. McKinley, the highest mountain on the North American continent.'
The Mt. McKinley Hotel and National Park comprise what is perhaps the best known tourist spot in Alaska. During summer months the park is dotted with beautiful arctic flowers and affords an awe-inspiring view of surrounding mountains and glaciers.
Between the two mountain chains is a vast area of open country blessed with rich natural resources. It has the greatest potentialities for a well rounded economy and development of any section of the land. Farmlands grow field crops similar to those grown in the U. S. Mid-West.
The region is a natural homestead area. There are considerable supplies of anthracite and bituminous coal, gold quartz and commercial timber. Fish are numerous along the coast. On the coast, heavy snows are common in winter and there is quite a bit of rain during the summer, but inland the winters resemble those of Illinois and the summers are never hot.
When the Federal Government authorized the building of a railroad into the interior in 1915 a virgin site was selected for its headquarters and shops. This was the beginning of the city of Anchorage. It started life as a nice little trainman’s community of about 2,000 residents with a steady backlog of railroad wages. Gradually fishing and farming added currency to the town’s resources which were increased further by coal and gold mining. Today Anchorage is one of Alaska’s largest cities with a bustling
Jan.-Feb., 1951
metropolitan population of 3,495.
It is one of the principal air centers of the world serving all parts of the country and on the direct route of several airlines to the Orient. Headquarters of many government agencies including the Alaska Railroad, the city is the base of many fishing, mining and sales operations for the entire Territory. There are fine hotels, ultramodern hospitals and numerous churches. It is a gateway to western Alaska and travelers will enjoy shopping and exploring its many facets on their way to' and from the wonders of the Interior.
Every boat and plane that is Alaska-bound arrives fully loaded with passengers and freight. The miniature stampede toward the Territory began before the end of World War II and has increased steadily ever since. This desire has not been promoted by the people in Alaska today and has not been publicized by the United States Government. It is simply the result of recognition of the Territory’s tremendous commercial and recreational resources which are great enough to' support several million people. The great political question, whether Alaska remains a Territory or becomes a State is still unsettled. Many development problems still exist. But in spite of these handicaps there are business opportunities in the country of which many Americans are taking advantage.
Alaska’s prospects for the future are bright however. There is a campaign on to induce business interests to invest capital in the Territory. Ways and means to make Alaska a fuller partner of the United States with a greater measure of self-government are being explored. Studies by business and labor concerning Alaska’s industrial development are progressing. The tourist industry is being developed. Air travel is being promoted both by United States airlines going to Alaska and by Alaskan airlines serving within the Territory. Better coordination between these two groups is being worked out which will afford air travelers the opportunity of complete coverage of this last frontier. Tourist facilities throughout the Territory are being improved. Greater agricultural development is being made possible through soil surveys and crop recommendations, better marketing conditions and farm credit possibilities. An increased public works program is underway.
The Future
Americans have long prided themselves on their excellent business judgment. But the fact remains that when the United States purchased the Territory from Russia in 1867 for $7,200,000 (less than two cents per acre) very few people in the country recognized its economic importance. It is even questionable that Secretary of State Seward ever fully realized its potential political and strategic importance. Whatever the motivation, every person in the United States is thankful today that the American flag flies above the Territory. And travelers visiting the land return with the knowledge that they have witnessed a land in the making which offers some of the most spectacular creations of nature to be seen anywhere on earth. To paraphrase the famous advice of Horace Greeley, on your next vacation— “Go North”.