Pa/v Am eriCA/v
Jan.-Feb., 1951	WOULD AfRWAYS TEACHER	5
S. H. Chao interprets from the other official languages into Chinese.
Mrs. Raul Mogone of Argentina is a Spanish simultaneous interpreter.
Nicholas Teslenko interprets from English and Russian into French.
Miss Nadine Pokrousky interprets from English and French into Russian.
Like other staff members of the United Nations the interpreters (top row) and translators (bottom row) shown here come from nations all over the world. They are seasoned air travelers, using air when they report for duty, and when they return home on leave. On the job —at Lake Success or in the new U.N. headquarters in Manhattan they are among the busiest workers in the organization and their accuracy is tested with every word spoken or written.
Emilio Wesphalen, from Peru, is a Spanish translator.
Cayetano Romano of Argentina is a Spanish translator.
Gillermo Brown of Chile works as a Spanish translator.
Tunl Miao, a Harvard graduate, is a Chinese translator.
this instant his voice is carried to the simultaneous interpreters in their soundproof booths. The interpreters pick up the speaker’s voice and translate through the microphones. Each delegate has earphones connected with the interpreters’ mikes. By turning the switch on, the delegate can choose any one of the five languages he prefers, or understands, best.
The system’s main difficulty lies in the tremendous nervous tension under which the interpreters must work. Sometimes the speaker talks too fast and not very clearly, and this is a situation quite maddening for the interpreter. What to do then? Simply fill the gap or apologize and catch up again. The second difficulty of the system may be the high cost of using more than six or seven languages. Theoretically, the number of languages that can be interpreted simultaneously is unlimited, but you can see how costly it would be to have interpreters from Indonesian into Burmese, from Italian to Japanese, from Thai to Spanish, and so on. The system, in fact, does not eliminate the monopoly of a small group of dominant tongues.
The translators’ work begins where the interpreters left off. Their task is to. write the summary records, translate into the three working languages everything for the following meetings of the Assembly’s committees. This means day and night work for all of them while the Assembly is in session.
The Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly of the United Nations are clear regarding the question of languages. Rule 51, for instance, provides that “Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish shall be the official languages of the General Assembly, its committees and sub-committees. English, French and Spanish shall be the working languages.” Rule 52 provides that “Speeches made in any of the working lan-
guages shall be interpreted into the other two working languages.” Referring to the interpretation from official languages, Rule 53 states that “Speeches made in either of the other two official languages shall be interpreted into the three working languages.”
This does not mean, of course, that other languages are excluded. Rule 54 provides that “Any representative may make a speech in a language other than the official languages. In this case, he shall provide for interpretation into one of the working languages. Interpretation into the other working languages by the interpreters of the Secretariat may be based on the interpretation given in the first working language.”
How about the language of verbatim records? Rule 55 provides that “Verbatim records shall be drawn up in the working languages. A translation of the whole or part of any verbatim record into either of the other two official languages shall be furnished if requested by any delegation.” As to the language of summary records, Rule 56 provides that “Summary records shall be drawn up as soon as possible in the official language.”
Men and Women at their Posts
The United Nations interpreters and translators are doing a tremendous job. The language problems which they meet and have to solve are at times baffling, but finally conquered. The translator’s job, everybody seems to admit, is often ungrateful and frequently underestimated. Those who do this work anywhere in the world realize that a translation is at best an echo and that a translation is no translation unless it can give you the music of the poem along with the words of it, as the Irish poet Synge once remarked. Translators everywhere, however, reject the indictment coined in the Italian slogan, Tracluttore-Traditore—“a translator is a traitor”.
The work of a translator or interpreter, I am told, is not a matter of intuition. It involves knowledge and experience, the mastery of at least two languages, the ability to grasp the meaning of ideas rather than words and express them correctly, artistically and simply in the other language, and this very few can do to the reader’s or listener’s satisfaction. Cervantes himself, the great Spanish writer, had his misgivings about translation when he wrote: “But for all of that, it appears to me that translating from one language into another, unless it be from one of those two queenly tongues, Greek and Latin, is like gazing at a Flemish tapestry with the wrong side out: even though the figures are visible, they are full of threads that obscure the view and are not bright and smooth as when seen from the other side.”
In an international organization like the United Nations the interpreter occupies a unique position. His accuracy is put to the test every second of his work. His unbiased aloofness even though the things he interprets or translates may touch his very life must remain above reproach. And it does remain so.
Perhaps most astonishing to people who listen to the radio or watch the telecast proceedings of the United Nations—especially the Security Council—is the harsh language used in those meetings. Are those speeches and discussions faithfully interpreted? Of course they are. Nothing is added or subtracted. The problem for the interpreter does not become acute until the speaker begins to use a series of double negatives such as “.. cannot remain indifferent” or a single negative such as “We cannot fail to be concerned,” or a hesitant positive “We view with concern” and so on.
Certain words and expressions in one language cannot be translated into another ; there is simply no equivalent. The English