6
word “jurisdiction”—to mention one—had to be translated into a six-word phrase in Russian. The Chinese have created hundreds of new words. For instance, “Atom bomb” was translated as “origin-matter shot” and “genocide” as “man-sheep (human group) butcher kill.” It was much easier to incorporate the word “genocide” into Spanish, French and Russian.
The list of words and expressions frequently used is endless. Typical of these words are “warmonger,” “puppet regime,” “ruling circles,” “so-called” and so on. Not long ago, a South American delegate introduced the word “justicialismo” without any warning. The best that could be done on the spur of the moment was “social justice” and that was it.*
Some people ask, “Is polite language a thing of the past?” Some listeners seem to think that the translators and interpreters may be overdoing it when expressions like “concealment of treachery”, “flagrant falsifications,” or “slanderous inventions” are heard over the radio or television set. The fact is that the list would be very long if we were to quote them all. Here are a few: “cowardly attack,” “one-sided, biased opinion,” “double dealing,” “a traitor’s document,” “aggressor,” “fascist regime,” “every word ... is a lie.”
Studied acrimony is no longer the exception. “If the force of an orator can be judged by the insults he makes,” said the
* The term "justicialismo” or ‘ justicialism” in English can best _ be interpreted—according to some Argentine political writers—to mean a "third position" or a third force in a world in which Communism and Capitalism are in conflict.
with current trends in social progress, reconstruction, government, education, the Marshall Plan and Atlantic Pact.
Three different tours are offered, and details have been published recently in Scholastic Teacher.
Briefly, they are:
A.	England, Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.
B.	England, Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, and France.
C.	Italy, Austria, Switzerland, and France.
The groups using air transportation will depart from New York beginning late in May and into early July. Itineraries, arranged with the cooperation of a leading travel agency, extend through approximately fifty days. In each country, programs call for:
(1)	Greeting and “how to find” orientation for shops, etc.
(2)	Tour members will learn through talks by authorities and visits about: (a) government and the political situation; (b) education trends; (c) social progress; (d) history and geography; (e) arts and literature; (f) agriculture, industry, reconstruction.
Pa/v American
World AfRmrs Teacher
General Assembly President of one speaker two or three years ago, “then he has reached the summit of eloquence.”
The interpretation from English into Spanish or French, where sentences are often composed in reverse order, presents its problems. A series of adjectives, or a subject appearing after a series of words, is particularly difficult. For instance: “The social, economic, political, cultural, moral and spiritual implications of this resolution, etc.” is a typical case. The interpreter into Spanish has to wait for the word “implications” before he can begin to translate.
The interpreters and translators of the United Nations carry a heavy responsibility on their shoulders in these days of anxiety and danger. Faithfully and loyally they make the sixty nations which compose the Organization understand one another, exchange views, debate, clarify their ideas, stress their convictions and reach, perhaps, understanding which may determine the future of mankind. The interpreters and translators have put into other languages the words of the Charter that the peoples of the world are determined, first, “to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war,” second, “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, third, “to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained” and, finally, “to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom.” All these words they have put into many languages for men to hear throughout the world.
(3)	Opportunity to talk with teachers.
(4)	Time for theatre recreation.
Address inquiries to Director, Scholastic Tours, 7 East 12th St., New York 3, N. Y.
Scholastic Magazines Caribbean Tours
A three weeks air tour starting at New Orleans and with visits, side trips and talks in university centers in Mexico, Guatemala, Panama, Colombia, Jamaica and Cuba, and return to New York from Habana will be offered by Scholastic.
Write to Director, Scholastic Tours, 7 East 12th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
Institute of Latin American Studies
This Institute will offer its annual summer school course in Colombia, July to August 1951 in cooperation with the National University of Bogota. All courses are fully accredited by Mississippi Southern College towards Bachelor’s degree, and by special arrangement students may do work for graduate credit.
Cost will be between $500 and $600 for transportation via PAA, tuition for the six weeks period July 1 to August 15, and living expenses. Courses offered will be in elementary Spanish, Spanish composition and conversation, history of Colombia and
Jan.-Feb., 1951
history of Colombian literature. Trips to other places in Colombia will be available on an optional basis.
Write to: Mr. Melvin G. Nydegger, Director, Institute of Latin American Studies, Mississippi Southern College, Station A, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
International House, New Orleans
International House again will sponsor summer courses at Merida, Yucatan; at San Jose, Costa Rica; and at Medellin, Colombia. Plans for sessions in other localities are being formulated.
Write to: Mario Bermudez, Director, International Relations, International House, Gravier and Camp Streets, New Orleans, Louisiana.
San Marcos University Summer School
Long a leading summer school in Latin America, San Marcos will operate this year on a basis comparable to that of years past.
The courses offered at the 1951 session are described on pages 8 and 9. Several agencies have set up arrangements for travel to Lima for the San Marcos summer session. See your own travel agent, or write to World Airways Teacher.
Institute of World Studies
Central and South America Institutes
The Institute of World Studies, located in Washington, D. C., has announced the selection and appointment of the United States Travel Agency, Inc. of Washington,
D.	C. and New York as the travel coordinators for the 1951 Institutes to be held in Central and South America this coming-summer.
N. Sidney Nyhus, Vice-President of the agency, will monitor all travel arrangements in connection with the program. Mr. Nyhus has just recently returned from a six-weeks trip around South America during which he studied all phases of the tourist industry with special emphasis being laid upon the educational travel program.
Combining as it does the major attractions of educational travel-for-credit courses in outstanding educational institutions in both Central and South America, the undeniable charms of “South of the border” travel, the pleasure of travel contacts with leading educators of the United States, the Institute of World Studies is forecasting a major travel trend southward in view of its extensive program.
A spokesman for the Institute commented, “It’s an unbeatable combination— university credit, foreign travel in fascinating countries of our own hemisphere, travel arrangements providing many features hither to be found only on the more expensive deluxe tours, all combined in a package at a price that is a “natural” for the teacher!”
Further details as to the scope of the academic program, Institute dates, travel details can be obtained by writing the headquarters of the Institute of World Studies, Homer Building, Washington, D. C. for an illustrated brochure.
EDUCATIONAL AIR TRAVEL 1951
(Continued from Page 1)