Pan American
Won id	Airways Teacher
Pah Americas World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 9 54, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
HOW ARE WE DOING?
With this issue, World Airways Teacher completes ten years of publication. Various editorial patterns have been used, and various frequencies of publication—as of now, we build each issue around a unit of study for geography or social studies classes, and come to you every two months, five times during the school year.
We’ve had hundreds and hundreds of appreciative letters, which we sincerely appreciate, and if we ask for more letters now, as we intend to do, it is not just to feed our vanity. We have that too, no doubt, but what we really want is help from readers in charting our course for the future. Excuse us! What we mean is, we want help in drawing up our flight plan for next year.
So may we have some letters, please, telling us:
1.	How you use World Airways Teacher, especially the teaching units on areas of the world, in the class room.
2.	How you would like World Airways Teacher changed. What should we add, omit or revise?
We’d like to have your permission to quote from your letter, and identify you when we do, in a report which we will publish in the first issue next fall.
We’ll award prizes, too. The writers of the three best letters will receive Replogle Globes decorated with Clipper models. This globe is illustrated on page 2 of our book for teen ager readers, “Aviation’s One World.” (If you are not familiar with “Aviation’s One World” ask for a copy when you write your letter.)
In choosing the 3 best letters, the judges will ask themselves: “What reports of use, and suggestions for changes, will do most to help make World Airways Teacher more useful to its readers?” Their decision will be final, and all letters sent in response to this inquiry will become the property of Pan American World Airways.
You’ll find our address in the mast head at the top of this column. To be eligible for awards, letters must be received prior to August 1, 1954. No minimum or maximum length is specified, but the judges will be favorably impressed by conciseness.
Every report and every suggestion sent to us will be gratefully received and carefully considered.
ADVENTURE IN EDUCATION
The 1954 edition of PAA’s directory of educational tours and summer schools abroad is available and will be mailed free of charge, upon request.
“Adventures in Education” lists tours to all parts of the world, sponsored by educational institutions and travel agents, many of them for credit, and most of them tailored to modest budgets. Information about such things as academic credit for travel, and allowable income tax deductions, is included.
Request by sending a post card, asking for “Adventures in Education,” to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
PAA TRAVEL FELLOWSHIPS
Students from Latin America will wing their way north again this year under a scholarship plan for graduate study at universities in the United States, announced by Pan American World Airways and Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra).
The airlines said the Civil Aeronautics Board had indicated that it would give favorable consideration to transportation of fellowship recipients selected by the Institute of International Education and approved by the State Department. About 50 students are to be flown to the U.S. to pursue graduate studies.
The travel fellowships for educational exchange between the Latin American countries and the United States provide round-trip transportation for graduate students who wish to continue their studies in this country. They were established in 1937 and, except for an interruption in the program last year, have been awarded to some 200 students, who were flown here and back by Pan American and Pan American-Grace.
Candidates are chosen by the Institute of International Education and are recommended to the airlines on the basis of merit and need. The recipients are chosen from among candidates whose applications have been approved by the committees on study and training, which exist in all the Latin American countries, and on which the cultural attache of the United States Embassy or a representative of the local American Consulate serves as an observer.
The scholarships, besides their value to the students in their educational endeavors, have proved an important factor in bringing about better understanding and friendship between the people of Latin America and the United States.
Since establishment of the program in 1937, fellowships have been awarded to 220 students who came from Latin America to the U.S. for graduate study, and 126 students who went from the U.S. to Latin America. Fields of study have ranged from architecture to veterinary medicine, and the exchanges have included every country in the Southern Americas.
Graduate students who wish to apply, and who are prepared to devote a full academic year to study under the fellowship, should apply direct to the Institute of International Education at 8 East 67th St., New York 21, N. Y.
PAY LATER PLAN
(Continued from Page 1)
follows similar plans for the purchase of refrigerators, automobiles, home improvements and television sets, but is simpler than many of these plans.
The plan is available on the services of Pan American and its affiliated carriers from the United States to the 83 countries and colonies served by the System on six continents.
The plan, which provides for a 10 per cent down payment and up to 20 monthly payments thereafter, is expected to affect the overseas transportation field much as the introduction of such methods influenced the automobile and home appliance industries.
According to the Federal Reserve Board, installment buying in 1952, the last year for which figures are available, accounted for 55 per cent of furniture sales, slightly over 50 per cent of the television sets sold, and approximately 51 per cent of the new automobiles sold in this country.
“Time selling of transportation has been tried before, but never on such a scale and never a method so convenient to the purchaser,” Mr. Lipscomb said. “Arranged with the largest finance institution of its kind in the United States, the plan makes installment buying of tickets almost as easy as buying the ticket for cash. In major cities, the buyer may pick up his tickets within a maximum of 48 hours after he makes application. In smaller communities the process will take longer, but never more than a week.
“Few institutions in the country can provide what we need—unlimited credit subject only to the usual safeguards of information on the individual financial responsibility.”
The “Pan Am Pay Later Plan” is available at all Pan American offices throughout the country and at 1500 authorized Pan American travel agency locations. Under it, credit may be granted to cover all international travel over the routes of PAA purchased in the United States; the international portion must be via Pan American or one of its affiliates.
A simple short form will be used, asking the information normally required for credit. After the form has been filled out and signed, there is nothing for the purchaser to do but come in, sign a note, and pick up his tickets. He will receive a monthly payment book from the financial institution.
Mr. Lipscomb cited several pre-arranged tours abroad to illustrate how the installment travel plan works.
A typical one-week Bermuda holiday, based on a departure from New York, including transportation, U.S. tax, transfers, hotels, breakfast and sightseeing, may be financed by paying $13.00 down, and $10.82 a month for the next twelve months.
A two-week tour of Paris, London, Rome and the Riviera, including a transatlantic crossing by Pan American, transfers, hotels, local transportation, sightseeing, tips and many meals, is available at a down payment of $82 with twelve monthly payments of $68.97.
Financing may cover all charges on an international tour, or just the air fare alone. On pre-arranged tours, it may include surface transportation, hotels, special accommodations and sightseeing.