Pan American
«	World AfRmrs Teacher
on-Avon, 100 miles. Great Britain is still working its way out of the economic chaos of World War II. She is very dollar conscious. The more dollars she can obtain the better, so authorities have placed no restrictions on the quantity of American currency which can be brought into the United Kingdom from the United States. Every dollar spent in Britain acts as another brick in building the wall of a secure British economy
TRAFALGAR SQUARE-----The statue of Lord Nelson occupies one of the loftiest
pedestals in statuary. In the background is the British Museum.
manufactured goods. Raw materials and foodstuffs are the chief imports. From the middle of the nineteenth century until after World War I, Great Britain, because her very existence depended upon commerce, operated on a basis of free trade. However, after that war the government raised a tariff wall as a protection against the high tariffs of other nations. In 1931 Great Britain revised her commercial policy toward the Dominions at the Ottawa Conference. Under this policy, the Dominions were virtually given the privileges of free trade with the Mother Country.
In the past, Great Britain’s small but navigable rivers served as the most important means of transportation within the island. Before the coming of the railroads, many of the rivers were improved and canals were built, which connected the inland towns with the sea. The first railroad was built about the middle of the nineteenth century, and from that time on, the canals were of secondary importance. The railroad system is one of the most modern in the world. The highway system is of historic interest, for many of the modern roads follow the routes of those laid down by the ancient Romans. With her far-flung colonies, Great Britain has been a pioneer in the development of world-wide air routes from the island to the four corners of the earth. The great new International Airport at London is the main base for these long range aircraft. It is there that Pan American’s Flying Clippers land on their way around the world. Other air terminals handle shorter range European flights.
England
Traveling in Britain is simplified by the comparatively short distances involved. London to Birmingham is only 110 miles; London to Edinburgh, 400 miles; London to Oxford, 60 miles; and London to Stratford-
which in turn will strengthen and encourage a healthier European economy in general.
London is the capital of England, the largest city in the world and the power plant of the British Empire. It is located in the London Basin and lies stolidly astride the meandering River Thames. More than 700 square miles make up the Greater London of today and the city sprawls away from the crooked Thames in every direction. In general, the city rests upon a foundation of clay, gravel and sand. Consequently, buildings are not high, and the Underground transport system is carved out deeply below the surface. The city’s site is flat, and the ground rarely rises above 400 feet. Unlike modern cities of today, London was laid out to no specific plan, rather it grew this way and that, through the centuries, when the green fields and country lanes developed into built-up areas and became the hub of the present era.
London is the greatest commercial center and the foremost port in the British Empire. It lies in the center of the commercial world, and is well equipped to handle the vast amount of goods brought to its docks and warehouses. There are more than thirty miles of docks, all supplied with the most modern facilities. London not only handles the goods and products of the empire, but also serves as a point of transshipment for the goods of other countries. The city is also the manufacturing center of the empire. Here are located industries of every description, and the products include clothing, textile goods, silk, chemicals, soap, boots and shoes, books, hardware and steel products. Here also are the largest sugar refineries and breweries in the kingdom. Another important manufacturing center is located in the vicinity of the coal and iron fields in Central England. Birmingham is the “Pittsburgh of England”, for there are located
QUEEN’S LIFE GUARD — Stationed in Whitehall, this guard sits as still as a statue, but his horse occasionally indulges in a switching of the tail.