16
Pan American
Wo mo Airways Teacher
JUNIOR AMBASSADORS — This group of teen age youngsters from Latin America traveled to the United States last year for a good will tour which took them throughout the United States. A return visit by boys from the United States is being organized for this summer by Panagra and the Exprinter Travel Service.
(Continued from Page 15) sentative for Pakistan and India delivered an address of welcome, there was an address by Sen. Alexander Wiley of Wisconsin and panel discussions by the foreign delegates. It concluded with a question and answer session—the questions having been submitted by U.S. students in the audience for reply by the guests from abroad on the platform, and this session was moderated by Roscoe Drummond, Chief of the Herald Tribune Washington Bureau.
A pamphlet reporting on the March 27 forum, with complete texts of the panel discussions and addresses, as printed in the Herald Tribune on March 29 is being published by the Herald Tribune, and World Airways Teacher readers may obtain the pamphlet without charge by writing to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y. Kinescopes of many of the television programs also are available— for information regarding them write to the Forum Director, N. Y. Herald Tribune, 230 West 41st St., New York 36, N. Y.
Junior Ambassadors
The first Junior Ambassador movement under sponsorship of Pan American-Grace Airways brought 35 boys from seven Latin American countries to the United States last October in a special Panagra plane flown by the line’s Chief Pilot, Frank J. Havelick. They flew from one end of the U.S. to the other, visited an automobile factory, listened to a briefing at the Pentagon, met Hollywood movie stars, attended a United Nations session in New York and engaged in many other activities, with a visit to the White House and an interview' with President Eisenhower as the climax.
Ranging in age from 14 to 16 years, the boys included sons of policemen and statesmen, accountants and professors, in short, a cross-section of Latin American life. Among their ambitions for careers are engineering, medicine, politics, law, the army and teaching.
Boys in the United States who were their hosts here now are preparing to return the visit. Arrangements have been set up as a regular package air tour, sponsored jointly by Panagra and the Exprinter Travel Service.
Strictly for boys between 14 and 16 years of age, the 21-day all-expense, escorted tour is scheduled to leave from Miami, July 9th, on Panagra’s El Interamericano express for Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. Official invitations have been received to have the youthful “envoys” visit these countries and enrollments are being accepted by local travel agents throughout the country, according to Edward G. Bern, Panagra’s vice president of sdles.
While the tour will be highlighted by personal interviews with heads of state, government dignitaries, and young people in each country, the “Junior Ambassadors” also will be treated to such sightseeing wonders as an inspection of the Panama Canal locks, a visit to the coffee plantations of Colombia, a trip to the Equator monument in the highlands of Ecuador, an archaeological study of Inca and pre-Inca civilizations, a drive around the highest capital in the world, skiing in the Chilean Andes, and a day on the Argentine pampas with the hard-riding gauchos. A full program of entertainment includes neighborly calls on private homes in the various cities on the route.
Full price of the tour is $1,095, and booklets giving complete details can be had upon request from Panagra, Exprinter, or any travel agent.
Teen-Age Ambassadors to Pakistan
Two teen-age ambassadors—one from Topeka, Kansas, the other from Taylor, Texas—left New York in March aboard a Pan American World Airways Clipper on a “flying carpet” trip to Pakistan, and thence on around the world, as guests of the Pakistan Government.
Sigrid Jan Larson, pert, blonde, 17-year-old senior from Topeka High School, and Michael Grady Woods, husky, 17-year-old honor student senior from Taylor High School, won their round-the-world trips in a nationwide essay contest sponsored by the Embassy of Pakistan in Washington on the subject of “Pakistan—A Friendly Nation.” Thousands of entries were submitted from 1100 of the nation’s high schools.
Governor Arn of Kansas and Governor Shivers of Texas appointed the youngsters as special Youth Ambassadors of Good Will. They carried special greetings from President Eisenhower to the youth of Pakistan, and other places to be visited on their “flying carpet” trip around the world.
After brief stops in London, Rome and Beirut, the two students continued to Karachi to begin three weeks of travel and friendship in both West and East Pakistan. Prime Minister Mohammed Ali, former Ambassador in Washington, invited them to be his guests in Pakistan’s capital before starting their goodwill trip around the country.
Although Pakistan with its 80 million people is new as a free nation—only six and a half years old—the teenagers had an opportunity to visit the ancient ruins of Mohenjo-Daro, which flourished sixty centuries ago on the banks of the Indus river; old mosques and palaces of the Moghul emperors, the historic battlefields and forts of the Khyber Pass and Attock, where Alexander the Great of Greece led his armies in 345 BC; the bazaars and caravansaries of Peshawar, camel caravans coming down from Afghanistan, and the storied land of Kipling.
In East Pakistan they visited the jute and burlap mills and endless rice paddies along the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers, the new hydro-electric plants and papermills at Kar-nafuli, and the tea auctions at the Fort of Chittagong on the Bay of Bengal.
Leaving Pakistan they flew to Rangoon, Bangkok, Hongkong, Manila, Honolulu, Los Angeles and on to their homes early in May.