Pan American
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO THE UNITED KINGDOM
It’s hardly more than an overnight trip to London by Flying Clipper, but it takes more time than that to get ready.
We need:
1.	A passport. However, no visa is required for a stay of three months or less.
2.	A vaccination certificate. It is required for re-entry into the United States.
3.	A reservation and ticket for Clipper passage. Reservation for the return passage also is advisable, although not absolutely necessary.
4.	Reservation for hotel accommodations at least for the first stop, and preferably for additional stops.
Also it takes some time to get a wardrobe ready—it will consist of garments such as would be worn in the United States, except that light weight summer things will not be needed, even in the summer months. Preparations must be made for picture taking and participation in favorite sports. And it will add to enjoyment to learn something of the United Kingdom in advance—such matters as are presented on the pages following.
All this can be accomplished in a month or so—even less if need be—but such matters as the passport are musts, and the others are most desirable.
And no matter how far ahead we start getting ready, the time slips away faster than we thought it would, and we’re in New York City, or Chicago, or Detroit, en route to the airport to board the Clipper.
If New York City is our port of embarkation we travel to Idlewild International Airport by limousine in the early afternoon, and check in at the PAA counter.
A Traffic Representative checks ticket, passport, vaccination certificate, fills out and hands to us a boarding card upon which is noted our seat assignment and asks us to stand by for the boarding announcement. .. .
There it is:
“Flight 100, ready for departure.”
Oh, yes, we are travelling this time on the President.
Through the gate we go, across the asphalt apron, and up the steps to the Double Decked Strato Clipper. The purser and the stewardess are at the doorway to greet us, and show us to our assigned seats.
Now the minutes drag like hours as the rest of the passengers come aboard, the door is closed, the engines are started, and the big Boeing finally moves away from the apron and out to the end of the runway. There is a pause here, as the Captain awaits his turn
for departure, meanwhile checking the myriad dials which give him data on engine performance and many other operating functions. At last the moment arrives. The Clipper starts to move, gains speed along the runway, and in a few seconds is airborne.
We gain altitude, bank and turn, and finally head eastward, all in accordance with traffic directions received by our Captain from the Control Tower on the airport. And after we leave the vicinity of the airport, we follow Airways Traffic Control directions, flying on the right side of the airway, at our assigned altitude, as we proceed toward Gander.
But all this is the concern of the flight crew, and we passengers relax comfortably in our seats, look out the window, or read or chat until the stewardess stops at our seat to ask if we are ready for dinner. We are, and what a dinner—steak and all the fixings.
As the stewardess finishes clearing away the trays, we hear on the loudspeaker the announcement that we are landing at Gander, Newfoundland. This is a stop of about an hour to refuel the Clipper before starting out across the Atlantic. We leave the plane to stretch our legs, to have coffee or a soft drink at the snack bar in the waiting room and write some post cards. The hour passes quickly, and we soon are aboard the Clipper again, ready to start out across the ocean.
As we start this part of the journey, there is a change in the attitudes of flight attendants and passengers. The purser and stewardess are busy—they are making the upper berths ready for those who wish to retire early. Some of the passengers in the Sleeperette seats let the back recline, pull out the leg rests and drape themselves with blankets. Those passengers who are not yet ready to yield to Morpheus descend to the lower deck lounge.
The upper lights in the cabin go out, and the individual reading lights blink out one by one, until there are only two or three left glowing by wakeful passengers who want to read just a little more.
In an hour or two all the passengers are asleep, except two or three hold-outs in the lounge below, and the members of the crew have time off, in rotation, to relax for a while, and to have a short nap if they wish.
For all aboard, the night’s sleep is cut short by the rotation of the earth and the speed of the Fying Clipper. The Clipper is flying toward the rising sun, and there is a difference of five hours between Eastern Standard
Time in New York and Zero, or Greenwich Meridian Time in London. A good part of this difference come right out of the hours of darkness, on the eastbound flight. We’ll get those hours back when we return on the westbound flight—we’ll have a long night for sleeping then.
Heath Row is the airport at London. We land at noon time, equivalent to 7 a.m. back in New York. We comply with the entry requirements which consist of showing our passports, disclosing the amount of money carried, clearing our baggage and satisfying health requirements, and then we have really arrived and are ready to visit the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
TRANSATLANTIC AIR SERVICE
Air service across the Atlantic is available in three classes, The Rainbow, The President and the President Special.
The regular daily first class service is the President operation. It is operated with the Double Decked “Strato Clippers”, and includes all of the service features that are standard for international air transportation, including berths at an extra charge.
The deluxe Transatlantic operation is the President Special service. Special luxuries are provided—limited passenger list, seven-course dinners, gifts of perfume and orchids for the lady passengers and many other extra features. It is, of course, an extra fare service.
The very popular tourist service, which enables one to make a very substantial saving in cost is the Rainbow. The airplanes used are the Super Sixes, built by Douglas. Simple meals are served, and frills are eliminated. The passenger list is somewhat larger—it is the greater number of passengers carried that makes it possible to charge each at a lower rate.
The time of passage is similar, and the standards of flight operation are identical for all three types of service—the only difference being in degree of luxury.
Here is a comparison of the various Transatlantic fares for the round trip between New York City and London: The President Special, $711 plus the extra fare of $25; The President, $711; the Rainbow, $495. During the Thrift Season (Nov. 1 thru March 31) the first class round fare is $610 and the tourist, or Rainbow, fare is $425 round trip.