Pan American
Worio	Airways Teacher
11
WESTMINSTER ABBEY — Here the rulers of Great Britain have been crowned for centuries. The great of England are buried here.
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
A SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: What have we inherited from the United Kingdom?
A. REASONS FOR SELECTION:
1.	The recent coronation of Queen Elizabeth brought many of the traditional customs to the fore.
2.	Queen Elizabeth’s trip has been of interest to all.
3.	For much of the study of the government of the United States it is helpful to have a background of information showing the origin of some of our methods.
4.	Any study of literature includes the names of famous authors of these countries.
5.	We ought to know more of the nation which was once our “Mother Country.”
6.	The approach of good weather means the coming of fairs and dance festivals which will include the music and folk dances of the countries of the United Kingdom.
7.	The number of people visiting these countries is increasing steadily.
8.	The tieup in all current events with the British government and the government of the United States of America.
III. LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	A “book fair” including books by the many great authors from these countries would arouse a desire to know more about the countries from which they came.
2.	A list of interesting historical places, the names of which are well known to all, would create an interest for further study.
3.	Story of the Coronation and a study of some of the traditions.
4.	Story or review of the Revolutionary War. Why did we separate from England? What did we carry over into the building of the United States of America?
5.	Current Events. Names of people in the news now. Visits of our diplomats to Great Britain and of theirs to the United States.
6.	Stories in the newspapers:
a.	“Is Britain Ahead of Us?”
b.	“Fire Destroys Big Scottish Lighthouse”
c.	“Elizabeth Plans Global ‘Sales’ Trip”
d.	“Buckingham Palace Goes to Sea”
e.	“Lady Powell to Address Girl Scouts”
7.	Some of the students may have seen an English movie recently. “Pickwick Papers” just opened.
8.	There could very well be an “Exchange Student” from the United Kingdom in your school.
9.	Any of the Visual Aids or books suggested in this issue could be used as a starting point.
10.	The recent trip of a teacher, parent or pupil makes a very good approach to a unit.
B. SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	What part of our governmental structure is based on the government of the United Kingdom? In what ways do we differ?
2.	What do we know about the famous authors, past and present, of the United Kingdom ?
3.	Why do the United States and the United Kingdom work so closely in recent times ?
4.	Are we acquainted with the present day leaders of the United Kingdom?
5.	To which inventors from the United Kingdom do we owe many of our modern day conveniences?
6.	How are the economies of the United Kingdom and the United States interrelated ?
IV. EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER: (note: it would be impossible to list all that could be included in this unit. It would also be impossible to cover all that might be included in the short time allotted. We are, therefore, including mainly subject matter which refers to our major and subsidiary problems)
1.	SOCIAL STUDIES geographical location of the United Kingdom and its effect on her relation to the other countries of Europe as well as on her own industries and occupations; location of famous waterways; location of famous places of interest; capitals and most important cities ; some famous explorers ; something about famous inventors; famous literary people; names in the news today; origins of some famous documents ; industries and products; exports and imports; educational centers; cultures of people in each part of the United Kingdom; trade relations with the world; colonial policies; post war problems ; significance in the family of nations today. (Social Studies material will be found in the pages of this issue)
2.	LANGUAGE ARTS:
a. New Words:—many are listed in the vocabulary in this issue. It will be interesting to note the different pronunciations and meanings given to the same word even though we all speak English.