Pan Americay
World Airways Teacher
s
THE BRITISH IN THEIR LAND
By Enrique Portes
WESTMINSTER BRIDGE — In the background are the Houses of Parliament, and the clock tower which houses Big Ben.
The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is its official name.
Wyoming is larger than Utah ; somewhere between them is the area of the United Kingdom. These island domains are a fascinating hodgepodge of heaths and moors, hills and valleys, factories and wheatfields, crazy little cowpaths and eight-lane parkways, sprawling drab cities and tidy country hamlets. It is a beautiful land, on the whole; there is tradition, antiquity, history, dignity wherever you go. The 48 million people find things pretty crowded ; on their 94,000 square miles, they have less living space than the citizens of highly concentrated Connecticut. There is good farm and grazing land in the south and in parts of Scotland. But much of the terrain is sterile from centuries of tillage ; to make things grow, fertilizers must be applied as lavishly as birdseed at an ostrich ranch. Rivers and streams abound. The coast line is so tortuous, so full of inlets into which big ships can travel, that no point in Scotland, for example, is more than 60 miles from the sea.
A noted American writer advises us that the best way to see Britain’s Lake Country is with a volume of Wordsworth in one’s pocket; the visitor, he adds, is less interested in the London of today than in Dickens’s London—the Soho of Doctor Menette, the Adelphi Terrace of David Copperfield, the White Hart Inn where Pickwick met Sam Weller, and the other storied spots. And then, the Scott country, the Hardy country, the Bronté country and all the rest.
Imagination, of course, is above everything else indispensable. The visitor who drives along the high-road between Winchester and Salisbury passes the remains of an old Roman encampment, with its double lines of ramparts. To the uninitiated they are just grassy embankments. But if the traveler has read Caesar’s Commentaries, he sees at once that they fit the descriptions in that classic text. And if the visitor possesses a fertile imagination, he sees Caesar himself, his bald head burned red by the midsummer sun of Southern England, striding about with the short Roman sword in hand; or he watches the close-embodied ranks of a legion cresting the nearest hill.
A Treasure House
England as a whole is packed with attractions of all sorts and so is London. This great city is an inexhaustible treasure house for every visitor. The list of its “musts” remains unvaried and includes Buckingham Palace (from the outside unless attending a garden party), Westminster Abbey, an example of early English architecture, the pure beauty of which is sometimes apt to be overlooked by visitors engrossed in its historic associations, the Tower of London (pure Shakespeare plus the crown jewels), the Houses of Parliament, with Big Ben towering above stand nearby. Strangely enough, here is one place in the Empire where the Queen is absolutely denied entrance: the House of Commons. Charles I queered things there for all his successors when he tried to force the door in 1642 to arrest some political dissenters. You, on the other hand,
can pop in anytime, free as you please, no questions asked. There are St. Paul’s Cathedral (miraculously spared by the blitz), St. James’ Palace (Tudor origin, the official residence of the Court), and Piccadilly, along which all the world seems to pass. The Thames, like the Hudson River in New York, makes its friendly way through the Port; the “City” (Wall Street), Westminster (Capitol Hill), the West End (Times Square and Fifth Avenue), Soho and Chelsea (Greenwich Village), Mayfair (Park Avenue), and many other districts split the metropolis into its components. London has everything in museums and galleries, parks and gardens. Kew Gardens contains one of the most beautiful displays of flowers in the world ; big shopping streets, Oxford and Regent; Bond Street, where the best tailors have their shops, and 10 Downing Street, where the Prime Minister lives.
Within day-excursion reach of London are the Shakespeare country—thatched cottages and the Riverside Memorial Theatre—• at about 100 miles; Oxford with its colleges dating from medieval times, 56 miles; Canterbury, the inspiration of Chaucer’s tales, 59 miles; Rye, the perfect cobbled smuggler’s village, 66 miles; Salisbury for Britain’s most graceful cathedral, 83 miles; and the Cotswolds, a region of near-perfect villages built of rough-hewed stone and necklaced with trout streams.
But for scenery in the grand manner you must go to Scotland, Europe’s most ancient kingdom, a colorful land of 30,000 square miles, most of it still unscarred by the swift onrush of modern times. Its natural assets
are the rugged grandeur of the lonely Highlands, the flashing beauty of its mountain salmon rivers, and the wide variety of its historic customs and folklore. Few places can surpass Loch Maree, shining blue in the sunlight in its nest of mountains. What is now conceded to be Europe’s most important festival, the Edinburgh International Festival of Music and Drama, is scheduled to run from August 22 through September 11. Three European symphony orchestras will take part: the Old Vic is presenting “Macbeth” ; the feature of the ballet programs will be “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” and the Comedie Francaise is presenting a season of French plays.
Guineas, bobs and florins
We won’t let you forget the little fun you will have with British money. Richard Mea-land had in Variety’s anniversary issue a very interesting article on the subject. According to him, British money seems to be hopelessly confusing to the American visitor, although really it is quite simple. “A pound,” he says, “is a quid. A guinea is a pound plus a shilling. There is no such thing as a guinea, however, except when you buy something ; you then find that your purchase costs a number of shillings more than you thought it did.” And then he adds, “A sovereign is a pound in the form of gold. It is worth more on the Continent than you can get for it in England, consequently there is a brisk manufacture of same in various cellars of France and Italy. Any old gold will do, but the expert will always demand unalloyed sovereigns. They are legal tender in England, but if you try to pass one they will ask you where