Pan American
i4_________________________Would	Teacher
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
Space does not permit listing ail available films and film strips. It is suggested that teachers zvrite to the British Information Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y. for their catalogue “Films from Britain.”
Motion Pictures
A Picture of Britain, 22 min. sound, b&w. E.B.F. Films Inc. 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111. A social and industrial impression of modern Britain and its people. Many phases of British daily life are shown
English Farm Family, 12 min. sound, b&w. color. Produced by the International Film Foundation. McGraw Hill Text-Film Dept. 330 West 42nd Street, N. Y. C. Shows modern farming in England at its most advanced, and some of the agricultural problems confronting England. A model wheat and dairy farm in the Reading area is depicted.
British Trade and Industry, 20 min. sound, b&w. Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates. United-World Education, 1445 Park Ave., N. Y. C. Shows London the metropolis, the port, financial headquarters and government seat. After an animated sequence locating industries, resources and transportation, the film takes us to Newcastle and follows the tasks of a British family there.
Britain’s New Resources, 10 min. sound, b&w. B.I.S. British Information Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. C. Britain’s economic position turns her ingenuity more and more upon her own resources, seeing what new ones can be exploited and by what means she can develop the use of raw materials already familiar.
The Ulster Story, 14 min. sound, b&w. B.I.S. Northern Ireland, not much bigger than the State of Connecticut, is generally known as Ulster. It is a country of small prosperous farms, a land of linen and flax, of milk and potatoes.
West of England, 10 min. sound, Technicolor, B.I.S. Here are the people of the Stroud Valley and their industries, showing the quality of their products and the excellence of the craftsmanship in the important wool industry.
Coronation Day, 20 min. sound, Technicolor, B.I.S. From the procession to Westminster Abbey through the ritual inside the Abbey and the return procession, all the highlights of Queen Elizabeth’s Coronation are presented here in beautiful colors.
The Future of Scotland, 20 min. sound, b&w. B. I. S. The MODERN AGE release carefully explores the industrial condition, the hydro-electric schemes, the arts and the political attitudes of Scotland and raises the problem of self-support on the part of Scotland today.
Snowdonia, 17 min. sound, Technicolor, B.I.S. Situated in northwest Wales, Snowdonia is famous for its beautiful scenery. This skillfully photographed film offers scenes of its broad lakes and the low-lying-valley farms. It shows famous castles of great historic interest standing within their old fortifications.
British Isles: Land and People, 10 min. sound, b&w. color. Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago, 111. Shows how and why the people of the British Isles have made excellent use of their limited space and resources and how they have built their islands into one of the world centers of shipping and trade.
The People’s Land, 11 min. sound, color, B.I.S. In 1895, without government assistance, a number of private enthusiasts formed the National Trust, dedicated to the preservation of England’s natural beauty and noble surroundings. The film shows the more than fifty thousand acres of magnificent English country-side held in the public trust forever, preserved for the people’s use and enjoyment.
Film Strips
Britain, 103 Frames, silent with captions. Life Magazine and S.V.E. 1345 West Di-versey Park, Chicago, 111. Explains the political organization of the United Kingdom and how it operates. Describes the role and function of the Monarchy.
Triumph of Parliament, 44 frames, silent, captions. Heritage Filmstrips Inc. 89-11 63rd Drive, Rego Park 24, N. Y. This filmstrip is one of the “Background of Freedom” series. An analytical semi-chronological study of the rise of the British Parliament as the first great representative institution of modern democratic times.
Britain 1900-1950, 29 frames, silent, captions. British Information Service. 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Never before in the history of mankind have so few years seen such tremendous changes in the world and in living as the period 1900-1950.
The Coronation, 36 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. In addition to the Coronation, this strip shows the trips taken after the ritual by Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh through England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Edinburgh—Festival City, 44 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland, is an ancient historical city. This great metropolis is a center of culture whose Annual Festival of Music and Drama has, since 1947, delighted visitors from all parts of the world.
Home of Shakespeare, 26 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. Stratford-on-Avon is in the very heart of England. Passing centuries have left little impression on its tranquil
streets and if Shakespeare were to return there today, he would find many familiar landmarks of his boyhood days.
Industrial South Wales, 30 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. Until recently, South Wales was dependent on one heavy industry—coal; in depression years, this dependence was responsible for widespread unemployment. Now the Government has started a program for a better-balanced economy.
Land of Britain—England, 31 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. Tbe densely populated countryside, high agricultural and industrial, which makes up England has many characteristics. There is the West Country, the rich farmlands of the South, the teaming millions around the busy hub that is London, and northwards the thriving industrial Midlands, where most of Britain’s exports are produced.
North Wales, 39 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. A part of the beautiful district of lakes and mountains in northern Wales has been selected as a future National Park. The film strip includes many scenes from this area.
A Visit to London, 52 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. The film strip pictures many famous London landmarks which are as familiar to tourists as they are to Londoners -—the Royal Palace, historic St. Paul’s Cathedral, the Tower of London, the picturesque Beefeaters and many other famous sights.
Wool, 25 frames silent, captions, B.I.S. British wool textiles, famous for their excellent quality, rank high among Britain’s most valuable dollar exports. The film strip describes their manufacture in detail.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Reading material on these countries is abundant. Only a limited number of sources can be listed here. We have tried to make them as varied as possible.
Cunliffe, J. W.—England in Picture, Song & Story—American News Street, A.—Land of the English People— Lippincott
Williams, L. S.—Robin & Jean in England— American Book
Williams, E. & F.—Story of English Life— Coward
Nicolay, H.—Born to Command—American News
King, M.—Elizabeth, the Tudor Princess— Lippincott
Criss, M.—Mary Stuart, Young Queen of Scots—Dodd Mead
Gray, E. J.—Young Walter Scott—Viking Flexner, M. W.—Drina, England’s Young-Victoria-—American News Brown & Arbuthnot—Story of England— Random House
Tappan, E. M.—When Knights Were Bold —Row Peterson
Stevenson—Talking Wires—American News
Judson, C.—Railway Engineer—Scribner Mac Manus—Donegal Wonder Book— Pellegrini & Cudahy
Mac Manus:—Bold Heroes of Hungry Hill —Enitale
Crawford, M.—Elizabeth, the Queen— Prentice
Crawford, M.—The Little Princesses— Harcourt