Pan American
World Airways Teacher	7
THE ECONOMY OF GREAT BRITAIN
By Lou A. Phillips
In all of history there is no other area of equal size in the world that has contained so much wealth and activity as the small island known as Great Britain lying off the northwest coast of Europe.
The island consists of three main divisions:	England, Scotland and Wales.
England lies in the south and Scotland to the north. Wales is a small peninsula jutting off to the west of England. Across the Irish Sea to the west is Ireland. Separated from the mainland of Europe by the English Channel, the Strait of Dover, and the North Sea, England nevertheless for centuries has influenced the political picture of the continent.
The total area of Great Britain, including the Isle of Man and the Channel Islands, is 89,041 square miles. The population is over 45,000,000. Northern Ireland, while not geographically a part of Great Britain, is included in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Due to its central location with respect to the land masses of the world, Great Britain is noted chiefly as a commercial nation. A study of a commercial map will reveal that many important lines of trade join at the island. Lying between two important commercial bodies of water, the North Sea and the Atlantic Ocean, Great Britain has the advantage of being nearer to both North America and Europe than is any other country in the world. The North Sea, which at the Strait of Dover is only about twenty miles wide, enables the British to trade with neighboring countries, and at the same time has served as a protection in times of war.
Great Britain is a mixture of highlands and plains, which form several distinct geographical regions. There are no very high mountains, nor is there land lower than the level of the sea. The highest region of the island is in Northern and Central Scotland. The coast line of this region is rough and deeply indented. Because of its rough character, not many people live here, and transportation is difficult. South of this mountain region is a wide lowland in which many of the large cities of Scotland are located. The southern part of Scotland, which is also a highland region, is noted for its large flocks of sheep, which supply a flourishing Scottish textile industry with wool. Extending down the western side of England from its northern border and into Wales is a long series of low mountain ranges.
Comprising almost all the eastern and southeastern portions of England is a plains region, which geologically is a continuation of the lowlands of Northern France. For in the past geologic ages, England was a part of the European continent, and the land that is now covered by the North Sea was a low land bridge over which the earliest people crossed into England. Later, this land settled and became covered with water. Because Great Britain is small there are no very long rivers. The largest are the Clyde of Scotland, the Severn of Southwestern England and the Thames of Southeastern England. These streams drain large areas,
and their wide, deep valleys make them valuable for shipping.
Great Britain’s long and deeply indented coast line has been an important factor in the development of her ocean trade and transportation. From the earliest times the British have been a seafaring people, and shipbuilding and fishing were among the first important industries. Britain’s deep and commodious harbors, many of which are formed by drowned river mouths, have aided the development of shipping; and most of the harbors can accommodate even the largest ocean vessels. Shipping, however, is handicapped by the high tides, which make it necessary to build special docks in which vessels are kept when the tide is out.
Although Great Britain is noted as a manufacturing country, its agricultural industry is very important. Farming was in early times the leading occupation. Before the Industrial Revolution the country produced an abundance of food, enough to export as well as to supply the needs of the people at home. However, because of the tremendous increase in population and the development of manufacturing, Britain now depends largely on an imported food supply. The mild climate and fertile soil make farming easy, but because of the small area devoted to agriculture, the farm lands have to be intensively cultivated. The principal crops are grains, fruits, vegetables, and pasture grass. Included in the agricultural lands are the large pastures devoted to grazing.
Extensive deposits of iron and coal are found in the upland regions of Western and Northern England and in the south of Scot-
land ; and around these deposits are built the manufacturing districts. The tin mines of Cornwall have been worked intensively since the earliest times and although they are still an important source of supply, Britain must import much tin. There are a few copper deposits in the south of England, but they have largely been depleted and copper is imported in large quantities.
With a generous supply of mineral resources both at home and in her colonies, with fast running streams to supply power, and with a large population to man her factories and to consume their products, Great Britain has, since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, been one of the leading manufacturing countries of the world. The greatest proportion of the population is dependent upon the factories of Britain for a living. The manufacture of textile goods is the most important industry in the country, and is followed by the manufacture of iron and steel products.
Because of Great Britain’s need for the products and raw materials of other countries, she has developed a world-wide commerce. There is hardly an ocean port that is not visited by British boats loaded not only with her own articles of export and import, but also with the goods of other nations. A large part of Britain’s commerce is with her colonies. Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, when a merchant marine was built to carry the products of the factories to world ports, Britain has been one of the leaders in the number and tonnage of her merchant vessels.
Great Britain’s annual foreign commerce is composed of about two-tbirds imports and one-third exports, and its annual value exceeds six billion dollars. Coal makes up the greatest part of the country’s exports followed by iron and steel products and other
TOWER BRIDGE — Leading the Tower of London, the Tower Bridge is one of a series crossing the Thames, like the East River bridges in New York City.