6
Pan Amertcan
World A/Rmvsr Teacher
OLD CURIOSITY SHOP — The antique and art shop which was a subject chosen by Charles Dickens still stands, and is clearly identified.
you got it and how come. This is dangerous.” Regarding the smaller pieces Mr. Mealand writes, “A penny is a large copper cart-wheel which wears holes in pockets. Hence, British pockets are made of better material than American pockets. Twelve pennies make a shilling. A shilling is a bob. Two bobs make a florin, but you never say bobs. You say two bob. Two and a half of these bobs make a half crown. But there is no such thing as a crown in everyday use. If you had a pocketful of crowns, if there were any crowns, your pants would fall off.”
Knowing as we do British politeness, it is worth while to recognize the various ways they express their thanks. “A few of them,” adds Mr. Mealand, “say thank you, quite clearly and unmistakably. But the rest of them say: kew, thenk yow, thankenee, thankee, nkyew, kuesir, kewsa, kewmum, kewmiss, or ta. Come to Britain . . . No Festival. No Coronation. And beef is back.”
Some British expressions strike us as funny as doubtless some of ours do to them. An English lady of our acquaintance always says “I very much like it”. A propos the above mentioned writer points out some of them. The British never say: pip-pip, by Jove, what-ho, toodle-on, cheerie-bye, and all that sort of rot, don’tcha know. They say: get cracking, okey, cheerio, righto, good show, bloody, ruddy, sticky, ducky, and I couldn’t care less. When they wish to sound slightly whimsical, which is often, they use “me” instead of “my”. Their words “smashing” and “smasher” seem to be as terse and as effective as our American equivalents. Their “come off it” equals our “be your age” slang.
The kind they are
“What kind of people do they think we are?” asked Churchill at a fateful moment in history. What, then, can you say of the English character? “England is a land of mixture and surprise,” wrote Emerson over a century ago, and most people who know England better maintain that the observation still holds good. The English character is tenacious, but by no means simple. It is stable and uniform, but various and heterogenous, too. It is at once obvious and elusive ; it is full of paradoxes.
Like the Americans, the English have been called materialistic, yet they have produced more than their share of mystics and poets, men like Donne and Herbert, Blake and Shelley, Fox and Penn. The greatest colonizing people of modern times, they are also the most passionately addicted to their own country and their community. They have a passion for privacy (incidentally one of the most difficult words to translate in any Romance language), and for their homes. Where Americans advertise resorts as being different from home, the English invite you to a “home away from home.”
Allegedly without a sense of humor, or with a belated one, they have produced the greatest humorists of our time, from Gilbert and Sullivan to Birmingham and Wode-house. A peaceful people, but when aroused they are pugnacious (the symbol of the bulldog is not misleading). In wars they always win, except when fighting other people of English origin—like the Americans. The English are a law-abiding people. Every-
where property is safe, women and children are safe, life is safe. They have the best police force in the world; the police do not carry weapons, and—what is more—do not need them.
The English are an intensively practical people. Few great speculative philosophers have they produced, but many practical ones : Bacon and Locke, Mill, Spencer and Huxley are their typical products, not men like Spinoza or Kant or Kierkegaard. They prefer to know the worst, so that they can be ready to meet it. “Blood, sweat, and tears” did not frighten them.
Though they are accused of conservatism and stubbornness, they are the most adventurous of people. What other nation has more explorers and navigators? From the days of Drake to those of Lawrence of Arabia they have led the way to the strange places of the earth. The English penetrate every river, conquer every mountain, levy upon the whole globe for their collections of flora and fauna, or of scientific lore. In adventure stories they are tops; what other literature has a Stevenson or a Buchan? Anyone will be told in England that The Times is the best newspaper in the world, and if not The Times then the Guardian. Regarding standard English, they will go to the expense of reprinting a book just to put a “u” in honor and an “me” on program.
Emerson remarked a century ago that the English make well all those things which are ill made elsewhere in the world. He was talking of material things, and it is still true that the whole world buys English shoes and tweeds and guns and even automobiles. Regarding their attitude one can detect that the English prefer understatement to exaggeration in humor or in oratory. There is less public love-making there than in either France or the United States. They do not shout themselves hoarse at games and would
not know what to make of organized cheering. Collectively, too, they are given to privacy. They do not broadcast a Voice of England, nor do they talk about the English Way of Life, and so far they have not inaugurated an “I Am an Englishman Day” (of course, they have not had the great current of immigration. The problem of assimilation of foreigners which accounts for our “I am an American Day” is practically unknown there).
All these traits enumerated here are simply a summary of what can be found in books and heard in lecture halls. The list can never be complete. One thing is sure: when you arrive in England you find the English not a divided, but a singularly homogeneous people; ease, good nature, and harmony characterize contemporary English social life.
In selecting an area for your visit abroad, if you choose the United Kingdom, you will be making a popular choice. It is a land of unrehearsed loveliness, clothed in a patchwork of green meadows, cathedrals, castles, cottages, and incredibly old and stable institutions.
The greatest British literary genius— Shakespeare—felt the spirit of his country more than any one else. In his Richard II, Shakespeare sums up in a song the spirit of his homeland.
This earth of majesty, this seat of Mars, This other Eden, demi-paradise,
This fortress built by Nature for herself Against infection and the hand of war,
This happy breed of men, this little world, This precious stone set in the silver sea, Which serves it in the office of a wall,
Or as a most defensive to a house,
Against the envy of less happier lands,
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this
England.