Pah American
j«ne, 1948	World Airways Teacher 5
(Photo from Information Center, Dominican Republic)
TOMB OF COLUMBUS. In Ciudad Trujillo, oldest city in the Western Hemisphere is the tomb of the discoverer, Christopher Columbus. The inscription reads “Columbus was a sailor.” The young sailor with his home-made craft doubtless dreams of a day when he too will be a sailor, and possibly explore little-known lands.
crop. It is grown principally in the provinces of the Cibao Valley. A large part is used in the domestic tobacco-manufacturing industry of Santiago.
The principal manufacturing industries are those associated with the processing of agricultural products, particularly sugar cane, cacao, coffee, and tobacco. A few others are engaged in the production of consumer goods for the domestic market, including such articles as shoes, cigarettes, cigars, straw hats, chocolate, alcohol, rum, beer, etc. Except for the sugar mills, most of these establishments are small enterprises, each employing a few workers and producing for a limited local market. The manufacturing centers are Ciudad Trujillo, Puerto Plata, San Pedro de Macoris, and La Vega.
In the export trade, the Dominican Republic is largely dependent on sugar, cacao, coffee, and tobacco. As reported by the Dominican Information Center, 507 Fifth Avenue, New York City, on February, 1948, the Dominican Republic rolled up a favorable balance of trade in 1947. Exports for the year totaled $83,205,000, an increase of 24 per cent over 1946. Imports amounted to $48,667,444.
Dominican sugar cane comprised 60 per cent of the total value of exports in 1947, followed by cacao, coffee, tobacco, citrus fruits and rice. The Dominican Republic ranks fourth among the American Republics as a sugar producer. It is developing its own industries by combining its ample resources with technical skill and capital from the United States. More than 4200 industrial establishments representing an investment of $98,000,000 were in operation during 1947. Some 5000 establishments are anticipated for 1948 with an estimated capital investment of $125,000,000.
Cleanliness a Reality
The Dominican Republic is a country where “cleanliness” is not an empty word. Cities and towns are spotless. Every day gangs of men are found sweeping, scrubbing, trimming and brushing everywhere. There is no dirt. The towns look clean. The public market system is an outstanding example of devotion to cleanliness. There is a large central building with branches in different parts of the Capital. These markets are the most modern and hygienic, the most efficiently conducted of any in the American tropics. “The structures are airy and the cement floors, walls, and counters spotlessly clean,” writes Adolphe Roberts in his Lands of the Inner Sea. “Vegetables and fruits of the country,” Roberts goes on, “are displayed in the greatest profusion, at prices a good deal below those prevailing in the shops outside. The meat department is run along model lines. You are separated by glass from the butchers, who take their wares from a refrigerator and show them to you on a platter. After you have made your selection the cutting and weighing is done with a minimum of handling. The order is wrapped in waxed paper and put in a compartment of a rotating drum, which is spun around to face you. If contamination occurs after you have accepted the package, that is your own fault. You have been able to see for yourself that the meat was delivered un-
defiled. Constant supervision by inspectors guarantees that the butchers do not fake their end of it.”
As we can see, these markets not only safeguard the health of the people but also encourage them to buy native instead of imported foods. And visitors, of course, never fail to appreciate and enjoy what these markets offer to them.
Some Dominican Customs
“So you want to know some Dominican customs? My student friend from the island Republic smiles, pauses for a minute or two and adds, “Why don’t you take a plane, spend a week-end in my country and see for yourself?” The idea is good, I say, but I want to know something now. Is the Corrida de Sortijas the most typical Dominican game? I ask. My friend thinks for a while and agrees. Then he gives me a brief idea of the game.
It is a sort of tournament of the ring for skilled horsemen. It takes place in a race track. The spectacle is for everyone. There is a stand filled with pretty girls who sponsor the cavaliers. Before the cavaliers a wire is stretched across the track and strung with varicolored wooden rings with colored streamers. Riding at a great pace the cavalier must be able to spear a ring. The greater the number of rings speared the larger the number of
ribbons flowing over him. In the old days the Spaniards rode with daggers but the Dominicans today use little sticks.
Is the “merengue” a typical dance? “It is,” my friend answers. And then goes into an explanation to make his point. Just as the Cubans have their “rhumba,” the Colombians their “pasillo,” the Argentines their “tango,” and Chileans their “cueca,” the Dominican Republic has its “merengue.”
The “merengue” has an interesting history. According to a legend, the dance was born some 160 years ago. “A Dominican soldier wounded in the right thigh in battle limped to his home for thirty miles.” With a smile my friend continues, “That soldier used to enjoy dancing, so as soon as he recovered he didn’t hesitate to try again. Limping on one leg he initiated a new step. Either out of sympathy or curiosity, people began to imitate the soldier’s peculiar right leg drag and dip.” Today, the student concluded, the “merengue” has incorporated them into the dance.
The “merengue” is not as complicated as the rhumba. It is, however, a zestful dance. It is very popular in the island where even in small communities people sing and dance it accompanied by a group of players with horn, hand-thumped drums and maracas. The “merengue”—or Domi-nicana as it is now called—was introduced