Pan American
June, 1948_______________WORLD AIRWAYS TFACHEa__________________________3
AN AIR VIEW OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TODAY
By Enrique Portes
Your air trip to the Dominican Republic can be one of the most exciting adventures in your life. From the air you can see the two countries that share the Hispaniola, then endless squared-off fields of sugar cane rolling smoothly between occasional stands of timber and dotted by slender palms, broad new roads intercepting the region, and little towns and villages scattered along the way. Your Flying Clipper will sweep over the towns of La Ramona and San Pedro Macoris, and soon the ancient capital of the Republic at the mouth of the Ozama River looms up.
When you arrive at the “General Andrews” airport which is conveniently located on the outskirts of the city, the immigration authorities treat you with courtesy and efficiency. Your tourist card issued for 30 days is all you need.
You drive into the gleaming modern Ciudad Trujillo, once Santo Domingo. It is a panorama of fascinating and dramatic contrasts. Brand new sedans, jeeps and Ford trucks rub elbows with donkey trains and push-carts; splendid white buildings, hospitals, schools and government palaces are within a few minutes ride of palm thatched huts. Everywhere the new and the modern rubs shoulders with the past. At one end of George Washington Avenue, the palm-lined drive that skirts the Caribbean in the Capital, the Hotel Jaragua rises in tier after tier of deep balconies that have the mass effect of the new school of architecture. The verandas and outdoor terraces for recreation are spacious, the bedrooms the last word in comfort, and local foods and drinks are featured along with standard dishes.
On the terrace of the Jaragua you can sip a delightful punch, look across the rose umbrellas in the patio past the swimming pool, the lawn and the avenue of palms to the Caribbean and watch the blue water that is the grave of an armada which went down in a hurricane over four hundred years ago. Fifty high-pooped galleons lie now under the blue, their cargo of golden ducats long since turned green.
Columbus and Hispaniola
Although it took Columbus months to find the Hispaniola, it is only eight air hours from New York by way of Pan American Clipper. It is interesting to recall the impressions which Hispaniola left on the Discoverer.
“The island,” writes Columbus in his Letter on the Discovery (1493), “is very fertile. In it there are many harbors ... and many rivers, good and large ... many sierras and lofty mountains. All are most beautiful, of a thousand shapes, and all easy to walk through, and full of trees of a thousand kinds, and tall, so that they seem to reach the sky ... and some of them
were in flower, and some with fruit--------
The nightingale was singing, and there
were other birds of a thousand kinds-------
There are six or eight kinds of palms, which are a wonder to behold.... Hispaniola is a marvel... and the lands so fine and rich for planting and sowing, for breeding cattle of every kind, for building
towns and villages... it is a land to be desired, and, once seen, never to be left.” This is not all, of course, that Columbus wrote about Hispaniola. There is a note of excess, no doubt, in Columbus’ writings. His language becomes monotonous at times, with repetitions of hyperbolic formulas, but he achieves delightful effects with his scanty vocabulary, as when he speaks of trees that “ceased to be green and became black from sheer greenness,” or of “the chirping of crickets all through the night,” or when he says in simple words: “The nightingale was singing.” Was Columbus really writing of Hispaniola or was he giving his impression according to the literary fashion of his time? In those days, to be perfect, a landscape had to be a garden of perpetual spring. Paradise itself had been so conceived for many centuries. And Hispaniola happens tO' be green and full of flowers, fruits, and singing birds all the year round. At any rate such was the impression which Hispaniola left on the Discoverer. The island today holds two countries: the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
Facts and Figures
The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of the Island of Hispaniola. Haiti occupies the other third. It is officially known as República Dominicana. When the island was discovered in 1492, Columbus named it Española. The name of the Republic is derived from Santo Domingo (Saint Dominic), the name of the city founded by Bartholomew Columbus in 1946. Santo Domingo, now called Ciudad Trujillo, was the first permanent
European settlement in the New World.
The climate is pleasant the year round, the average temperature being 77 degrees F. In Constanza, located in the mountains of the interior, January weather has registered 32 degrees F., but the average there is 68.8. In Ciudad Trujillo the average is 79.5.
The island is crossed by four mountain ranges lying northwest to southwest, and is bounded by Haiti and some 1500 miles of seacoast. The Dominican mountains are the highest in the West Indies. The Royal Plain, Vega Real, is one of the richest valleys of all the West Indies, somewhat similar is the rich soil of the coastal plains which also produce most of the staple crops of the warmer Americas, including bananas, rice, sugar cane, sisals, coffee, etc. The three most important rivers are Rio Yaque del Sur, Rio Ozama, and Rio Yaque del Norte. Population, according to the 1944 census was 1,970,000.
Progress in Education
It is interesting to note that education is making real progress in the Dominican Republic. A few statistics might help us in substantiating this statement. According to a report issued by the Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs in 1944, “33 per cent of the population was literate in 1942. In 1943 the 1896 primary schools in the country had a total enrollment of 203,990 pupils, and the 79 intermediate schools a student body of 7,545. The University of Santo Domingo had a registration of 868 students in 1940.” Let us look now at another report issued in 1947 covering the year of 1946. “For the school year of 1946 there were
(Photo from Information. Center, Dominican Republic)
CIUDAD TRUJILLO. The capital of the Dominican Republic may be the oldest city in the Western Hemisphere, but it is a modern city just the same. This picture shows the new three million dollar Hotel Jaragua, first unit in a projected $20,000,000
resort improvement program.