4
2042 primary schools operating in the Dominican Republic, with a total attendance of 214,406 pupils.” The official report issued by the Information Center of the Dominican Republic on February 17, 1948, states among other things, “Today there are 2576 schools with enrollment of 242,545. The school year runs from September 15 to July 15 and attendance is 85 to 90 per cent of enrollment. Illiteracy is today 36.77 per cent in respect to the total population of 2,000,000. It is negligible among people under thirty-five.” This is indeed a significant increase both in schools and students.
In addition to the primary, secondary, and normal schools, the State maintains a number of vocational schools which offer courses in agriculture, commerce, art, and some of the industrial trades. The National Theatre School, the Conservatory of Music and the School of Fine Arts, are other well known institutions. All of these schools are free of charge. In 1946 there were 84 of them with a total enrollment of 5,886 students. The first year of its establishment (1945), the National Conservatory of Music had 610 students enrolled.
Musical education also has progressed considerably in the Dominican Republic. It has helped to rediscover traditional airs and half-forgotten dances. It has popularized the “merengue,” one of the few traditional folk dances of the Antilles that is not African in origin. The “merengue” is a derivation of the waltz, and is similar in some respect to the Colombian “pasillo.” The “merengue” is now called “Domini-cana.”
The Dominican Republic boasts of having established the first University in the Western Hemisphere. As a result of a Papal Bull issued by Pope Paul III, on October 28, 1538, the City of Santo Domingo—now Ciudad Trujillo—became the site of the first institution of higher learning. The establishment installed by the Dominican Friars for “general study” and also for “arts and theology,” was to be expanded into a university., At the present time there are six colleges : Law, Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, Exact Sciences, and Liberal Arts. This latter includes philology, folklore, mathematics, economics, journalism, and languages. In 1946, 2,146 students enrolled.
Today the University of Santo Domingo exchanges professors and scholarships with foreign universities and is being housed in a new “University City,” now being constructed on the outskirts of the Capital at a cost of $2,000,000.
A Man to Remember
The Dominican Republic can be proud of having given to the Spanish world a great scholar and a noble heart : Pedro Henriquez Urena. He was born on June 29, 1884 and died on May 12, 1946. His father was onetime President of the Republic and his mother was the poetess Salomé Urena. His brother Max, writer and diplomat, and his sister Camila, Associate Professor of Spanish at Vassar College, have shared in bringing honor to the name of Henriquez Urena throughout the continent.
After studying at the Professional Institute of Santo Domingo, Don Pedro
Pan Amer [can
World Airways Teacher	June> 1948
obtained his law degree in Mexico in 1914 and the M.A. and Ph.D from the University of Minnesota in 1917 and 1918, respectively.
While in the United States Henriquez Urena taught Spanish Language and Literature at the University of Minnesota, gave courses at the summer schools of the Universities of California and Chicago, and wrote for several magazines and newspapers. Later he moved to Argentina, where he lectured at both the University of Buenos Aires and the University of La Plata, and carried on research on philology. He traveled throughout the continent and in 1940-41 gave the Norton lectures at Harvard University, subsequently published as Literary Currents in Hispanic America.
Henriquez Urena loved his native language, and, to know it better, he extended his efforts to the mastery of others, convinced that the knowledge of various tongues purifies one’s command of one’s own. He was a philologist with the heart of a poet. Words were for him not merely means of communication, certain signs and sounds conducting thought, but also living symbols, worldly witnesses of the phases through which human intelligence has passed.
No Spanish American has received in recent years so much praise and admiration. “What amazed us,” writes the Argentine Enrique Amberson Imbert, “was that such great knowledge and understanding should be displayed so simply. When he approached we became as humble as shadows, but he lifted up our spirits, addressed us face tO‘ face and made us people. ... He was so young that our respect for him was purely respect for his spirit; what moved us was not his age but his talent.”
And here is a final tribute by Antonio Castro Leal: “Henriquez Urena always spoke of America as of a whole, a rich and varied unity; and he himself moved about in it as in the fields of a vast homeland. He never felt himself a foreigner while he was in a Hispano-American country. He was so firmly united to the intellectual life of our nations that he got to the point of feeling their joys and sorrows as if they were his own. He maintained the fecundity of our continent.”
Pedro Henriquez Urena is a glory of the Dominican Republic and of the entire continent. His name will always be remembered.
Aviation on the March
The Dominican Republic—like all Latin America—has taken to the air in a great way. Aviation has caught the imagination of everybody. Whole new districts have not only been brought to the doorsteps of the modern world; they have been put to new productive use; they have received the impact of modern civilization.
Extensive air transportation facilities place the island in an excellent position as a commercial and tourist center. There are good airfields throughout the country, especially that of Ciudad Trujillo named “General Andrews,” to honor an American hero. It is one of the finest airfields to be found in the West Indies.
Pan American World Airways serves the Dominican Republic with its Flying Clippers. In addition many other companies fly to the island Republic, namely, Dutch Airlines KLM, Argonaut Airway Corporation, Skiline, Inc., Waterman Airlines, Trans-Caribbean Air Cargo Lines, Taca Airways, and others. In the interior the Compaiiia Dominicana de Aviacion operates daily flights to the most important cities. As an affiliate of Pan American World Airways, Dominicana has established schedules connecting with those of PA A, enabling American vacationists to reach the new resorts with no loss of time. As an affiliate of PAA, Dominicana can draw on its vast storehouse of technical “know how” developed by Pan American World Airways in more than 20 years of pioneering global routes. Maintenance and overhaul of Compania Dominicana aircraft is supervised by PAA mechanics.
The airplane has been put to new uses in the Dominican Republic. Recently a news dispatch appeared in the papers describing how the Dominican Air Force completed several highly successful experiments in producing rainfall by dropping dry ice pellets into the clouds. In one of these experiments an abundant rainfall was created in the arid region of the Nizao Valley on the south coast. In another experiment, rain fell for an hour and a half on the town of Azua, which is noted for its chronic drought. The success of the experiments holds forth the promise of turning much of the Republic’s arid lands into producing areas, since the soil is fertile and needs only water.
Resources Put to Use
The Dominican Republic is predominantly agricultural. The principal export crops are sugar, cacao, coffee, and tobacco; but corn, rice, beans, bananas, oranges, pineapples, mangoes, and coconuts as well as a wide variety of other tropical fruits and vegetables are grown, principally for domestic consumption. About half the area of the country is suitable for agriculture, but only about one-fifth is actually under cultivation.
One feature of the country’s economy is the extent of its dependence on a small number of agricultural commodities, particularly sugar, cacao, and coffee. In recent years, however, diversification of agriculture has taken place. The Government is making efforts to- increase the production of certain crops which in the past have been of minor importance. Special attention has been given to irrigation projects, the development of an interior highway system, and the distribution of land to needy agriculturists.
From colonial times sugar has been the principal crop of the Dominican Republic. Production is carried on in all the lowland sections of the country, but the greatest concentration is in the vicinity of San Pedro de Macoris. Cacao ranks second as an export crop. In the production of cacao beans, the country is exceeded only by Brazil among the Republics of the Western Hemisphere. Coffee, the third important product, is grown in the highland regions. Tobacco is another important