Pah Amer r ca/V
June, 1948	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	7
British rule was established over native communities which in terms of civilization ranged from the completely primitive tribes of tropical Africa to- the Indians with their highly developed culture.
Government and the Commonwealth
There are two broad classes of lands in the British Commonwealth and Empire— the Dominions and the Dependencies. The Dominions are those countries which have obtained self-government and are free and independent nations, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India and Pakistan. These countries remain in the Commonwealth of their own free will and are equal in status with respect to their domestic or external affairs. Although there is a bond of kinship and loyalty to the Crown they have a right to proclaim their neutrality in time of war. The Dependencies are territories that have not yet reached full self-government. They are composed of peoples of many different races, cultures and environments, at totally different levels of civilization, located in Africa, the Far East, Mediterranean, West Indies, the Americas and the Pacific, Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
The King is the living symbol of this Empire and embodies the love, devotion and loyalty every Englishman feels for his country. His constitutional functions are purely automatic. The Crown must give his approval to all statutes enacted by Parliament and as long as the two party system functions. His choice of a prime minister is limited to either the leader of the party in power or of the opposition when the former has been defeated. The only function the King has in common with the President of the United States is that both symbolize the States of which they are the head. It is the President and the Prime-Minister who have largely the same powers.
The legislative branch of the government is composed of a House of Commons and a House of Lords. The House of Commons, with 615 members each representing 700,000 of the population, is elected by popular vote for a term of five years. Most of the members represent districts although a few represent towns and universities. No member is required to reside in the district from which he is elected but peers, priests, clergymen and government officers are not allowed to become members of the House of Commons. The House of Lords with 750 members, is composed largely of hereditary peers under the leadership of a Lord High Chancellor. Their main function is advisory as they cannot halt action decided upon by the House of Commons. Most of the members of both houses are men although women have been admitted since the passage of a bill in 1918 giving them the right to sit in Parliament. The judicial branch of the government is headed by the House of Lords and the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
The British counterpart of the U. S. Constitution is not a single document but has to be pieced together from a large number of enactments such as the Magna Charta, the Petition of Rights, the Bill of Rights, the Habeas Corpus Act and the Parliament Act. It can be amended at any time by a simple majority of Parliament.

STRATFORD-ON-AVON. Through the efforts of citizens in Stratford-on-Avon there now is a theatre dedicated to the production of Shakespeare’s plays in the city where he lived. The Shakespeare Memorial Theatre may be seen in the background of this photograph. In front of the theatre is a couple indulging in the typically British recreation of “punting” on the Avon River.
However the English are a conservative people by nature, who do not welcome radical alteration in their way of life, and the result is that fundamental changes in the structure of government are not made more often than in the United States where two-thirds of the Congress and three-fourths of the States must approve Constitutional amendments. The change is usually gradual, sometimes imperceptible.
The World’s Biggest Customer
In the past the United Kingdom has earned the money to buy from other countries mainly by three methods, all of which have been adversely affected by the First and Second World Wars.
British citizens invested their money and technical skill in building railroads, factories, power plants and all kinds of industries all over the world and used the interest and dividends earned by these enterprises to buy goods in world markets. To pay for some of the costs of war these investments were liquidated to a large extent.
British banking, insurance, and shipping services were other sources of foreign exchange. London however is no longer the financial heart of the world and sterling has temporarily ceased to be convertible due to England’s desire to conserve her limited foreign exchange for necessities. Net loss of merchant tonnage in the war after replacements was nearly one in three. Furthermore, in the face of the huge wartime expenditures outside of Britain during this period, overseas liabilities increased nearly seven fold.
To make up for the reduction in her income from overseas due to her losses in foreign investments, in merchant shipping, and greatly increased foreign debts Britain must rely on her third source of foreign exchange in greater degree than ever before. Always the most important, it now becomes vital in the interest of the survival of the country as a leading nation of the world, for Britain to sell the products of her industries to other countries. In this respect what has been termed Britain’s Battle for Exports is as important as any battle ever fought by her armed forces.
Britain and America
All Britain is anxious to prove to Americans that their country still retains its spunk and spark. They also realize the importance of attracting tourists who will leave behind them dollars which may be used to purchase commodities needed to increase production.
One of the most enjoyable things we can import from Britain is the delight oi a two weeks vacation made especially easy by Pan American Clippers which glide into London Airport daily. The reception that awaits the air traveler is best expressed by a booklet published by the British for visiting Americans which states, “Great Britain is so well known to so many Americans that when they visit us we like to believe that they think of themselves not as being in a foreign country but as being among friends and relations and it is as such that we in Great Britain welcome all who come to us from the United States of America.”