2
PaK American
World	Alrmys Teacher
June, 1948
.Pah American
S*S\
Worlo Airways Teacher ^
Published, as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Enrique Portes, Editorial Consultant
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
The Other Americas
(A Visual Unit)
A new visual education unit, P.A.A. Unit No. 3, The Other Americas, now is ready for gratis distribution to visual education centers.
This new unit includes:
1.	Twelve color pictograph economic maps.
2.	Booklet, “The Wealth of the Other Americas”, containing illustrations and current economic information.
3.	Pamphlets on Latin American countries.
4.	Reprint of “How to Win Friends and Influence People in South America.”
5.	One 108-frame, three part, educational slide film.
6.	Manual, Teacher’s Guide and Bibliography.
In order that the unit may be available for circulation to various classes, it is offered only to the Visual Education department or (Social Studies Department) of a school system. Educational Service hopes by this means to achieve a maximum use for the somewhat limited number of sets which it was possible to produce.
Visual or Social Studies departments desiring to have the new unit on file should direct requests to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, New York.
First Fullbrighter
The first U. S. citizen to receive an award for study abroad under the provision of the Fullbright Act is Dr. Derk Bodde of the University of Pennsylvania, who will depart for Peiping, China within the next few weeks for a year’s stay.
The Fullbright teacher and student and exchange program was made possible by the sale to other governments of War surplus materials. Under the act, the governments which owe bills for such equipment may, instead of paying in cash to the United States, use the funds to sponsor educational exchanges with the U. S.
Arrangements already have been concluded by China, Burma, Philippine Islands and Greece. Fullbright programs are anticipated for about twenty countries.
Detailed information may be had from the Division of International Exchange of Persons, Department of State, Washington 25, D. C.
Students “Operate” Air Lines
Students from Seattle’s eight high schools dispatched the Flying Clippers from Seattle to Alaska one day this spring—under close and detailed supervision by the regular employees assigned to this work.
The group of students, all looking forward to careers in air line operation, reported at the airport at 7 a.m. Each was assigned to participate with a regular employee in the preparations for dispatching that day’s flights. Each had a title for the day, as traffic superintendent, meteorologist, flight service superintendent, etc.
Valuable experience was gained by all, and the presence of the regular employees guaranteed a routine, smooth-running operation on that day, just like any other. Atlantic Air Parcel Post
Any post office now will accept air parcel post for points in Europe and Africa. Requirements as to weight and size limitations, customs declarations and other conditions governing international surface parcel post apply generally, and in addition the air parcel post package must bear the blue par avion or air mail sticker.
Rates for the service range from 76 cents for the first four ounces in the case of Bermuda to $1.38 for the first four ounces if the package is addressed to the Belgian Congo. For a larger package, the additional charge is at a lower rate; for example the rate to Bermuda is 76 cents for the first four ounces or fraction and 13 cents for each additional four ounces or fraction. Limit of weight permissible varies—to Union of South Africa it is 11 pounds; to Finland it is 44.
Air parcels may be registered or insured to those countries where such service is available for parcel post generally, and packages will receive all available domestic air mail service in addition to transportation overseas by air.
Air-Sea Travel
Prior to World War II, a combination journey, partly by air and partly by ocean liner, achieved popularity—especially in the Pacific area. Under an agreement then existing, tickets were sold for a journey from California one way by air and one way by sea, also by surface to Hawaii and by air beyond either to the Orient or the South Seas.
Pan American World Airways and the Matson Navigation Company now have announced a new agreement for combination Air-Sea Travel. Tickets now may be purchased either from PAA or from Matson covering such transportation between any points served by either of the two companies.
Rugby Week in Bermuda
Bermuda’s Rugby Week drew some four hundred college students from the United States when it was celebrated between March 30 and April 8. Most of the students traveled to and from the Atlantic vacation spot by Flying Clipper.
The U. S. Rugby teams from Yale, Harvard and Princeton played with courage and determination but were no match for the skill of the champion Bermuda team in this game, which is something like soccer and something like U. S. football. Princeton won from Yale, then lost to the Bermuda team.
Socially the program included dances, picnics, bicycle excursions and swimming. See Life Magazine of April 26 for a picture story of Rugby Week this year. Miami Leads
Again in 1947, as has been the case for years, Miami’s International Airport leads the nation as a port of entry and departure for international air travelers.
U. S. Immigration and Naturalization Service figures disclose that 426,887 international passengers passed through the city last year. This exceeded by 154,415 the total for international air passengers in and out of New York, which was second to Miami in this respect.
The breakdown of the Miami figure showed that 216,296 were inbound and 210,591 were outbound passengers. Evander Childs Award
The Evander Childs annual award “for an outstanding contribution to the cause of inter-American solidarity and hemisphere democracy” was presented this year to the New York Herald Tribune, which sponsored the visit of twenty-nine students from all the Latin Americas and four from Canada to its 1947 High School Forum. All traveled by air, those from Latin America by Flying Clipper.
Air Excursions to Latin America
Special summer excursion fares for travel to the Caribbean area, Mexico and Guatemala for four months beginning June 2 have been announced by Pan American World Airways.
Seventeen excursions have been made available, priced at $77 to $138, and departing from Pan American’s gateways at Miami, New Orleans, Houston, Brownsville and Corpus Christi. Savings as compared with regular fares are more than thirty percent, and range up to $60 on various trips.