8
Shakespeare’s Home. William Shakespeare was born, lived, and died at Stratford-on-Avon. His home there has been preserved as a memorial to the great poet and playwright, and is visited annually by the thousands of persons who go to Stratford-on-Avon for the presentations in the memorial theater of the plays written and produced years ago by the “Bard of Avon”.
Most manufacturing in Britain is carried on in the vicinity of the coal and iron fields in the central portion of the country. Birmingham has gained the title of the Pittsburgh of the nation for most of the great steel mills of the land are located there.
Farther north lies Sheffield also a steel town but especially noted for its fine cutlery and the wool center of Leeds. Manchester is famed for its cotton while Bristol is famous for its glass. All British products can be bought without coupons for direct shipment back home or delivery to your Clipper. Liverpool is also of great interest to travelers. Second ranking seaport of England, it has a heavy export and import trade though shipbuilding yards, dry docks and wharves dot its busy waterfront.
England’s Tourist Appeal
London is the natural hub for concentrated sight-seeing in the British Isles. In the city or a few miles outside it are hundreds of interesting spots ranging from historic castles to world famous zoos and gardens. The old capital itself appears a bit gray and austere but the parks remain lush and green, the streets clean and tidy and the Bobbies courteous and smiling.
You can walk down Piccadilly Circus to the center of Westminster, the administrative heart of the British Empire; down from Trafalgar Square to the Houses of Parliament and Whitehall; and on to Westminster Abbey, center of royal marriages and coronations, and the burial ground of England’s Great. N6t far from the Abbey up Birdcage walk is Bucking-harn Palace, London residence of English sovereignty since 1837 when Queen Victoria moved in. Then there is St. Paul’s Cathedral and the Tower of London, medieval fortresses, once a royal palace famous for its political prisoners of past
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
Flying Clippers for London Will Carry Olympic Athletes
This summer all skyways lead to Britain and the XIVth Olympiad, when London, in her role of host to athletes and sports lovers from more than 50 nations, becomes the Sports Capital of the world.
On this occasion, many of the athletes will travel by Flying Clipper, and speedy transportation by air also will make it possible for more fans from the United States and from countries on six continents to fly to London in minimum time and see the greatest athletic champions of the world in action.
centuries. Within easy reach of London are such other famous attractions as Kew Gardens, covering about 270 acres and containing a collection of plants and curiosities unrivaled anywhere, Windsor Castle and Henley-on-Thames a river refuge full of greenness and tranquility.
Of course the English countryside, Scottish Lochs and Highlands, the Lakelands and the rugged beauty of Northern Ireland are the same today as they have been for centuries, wonders of scenic beauty and historic association.
Tourists need no ration cards for a four-week stay and are given extra gasoline for pleasure travel. Living though not frugal is without frills. Meals consist of three courses of which only one may be a main dish. There are hotels ranging from those in the luxury class to less pretentious but comfortable and homely country inns. A luxury hotel, British style, may be quite different from our American facilities but many Britons have opened their homes to visitors from “the States.”
In this respect Americans have tried to reciprocate by entertaining students from the British Isles in their homes. A group of boys and girls in this country to attend the Herald Tribune High-School Forum attended school with our young people, visited many places of interest with them and ate at their family dinner tables. By sitting down and talking to' each other strong friendships were formed, misunderstandings disappeared and respect grew. Transportation from England was furnished by Pan American World Airways.
Many young Britons are also to have the opportunity of university education in this country. Five hundred American university students are organizing an appeal in the United States to finance hundreds of British students to study in American universities. They are doing it because the dollar shortage means that none of these students can go to the United States under international student exchange schemes.
American and British youth are very much alike in their devotion to- love of sport. In England, lawn tennis, golf, cricket, football and rugby are popular. Racing has always been one of the favorite sports as has fox hunting. Other pastimes include greyhound racing, shooting, fishing, yachting and rowing.
There are many festivals of great interest to visitors. The International Fes-
June, 1948
tival of Music at Edinburgh which provides concerts, opera and drama in which may be seen and heard leading musicians, artists and actors of the day, is to be held this August and September. From April until October the Shakespeare Festival is to be held at Stratford-on-Avon in the most up-to-date theatre in Great Britain.
Future Promise
No people on earth show more characteristic national traits than the English. Outstanding in their persistence and never seeming to know the meaning of defeat, they are facing their changed economic status and its political implications with calm determination. For centuries the keynote of British foreign policy was a balance of power in Europe. Today emphasis has been shifted to' a desire for collective security within the framework of a western Europe bloc against a background of close cooperation with the Dominions and the United States.
As long as Canada, Australia and New Zealand remain British with British Constitutions and Parliamentary structures as they do today, even though independent, the Empire will live. It has been pointed out that because Canada for instance, ceased to be a colony and became an independent Dominion of the British Commonwealth that did not mean that the Empire as a whole was weakened. It was rather a change in the relationship of its component parts.
Today the British still have a great colonial empire covering some 23,000,000 square miles with a population of more than sixty million. It lies mainly in the tropical zone and stretches around the globe from the Bahamas across Africa, Asia, Indonesia and the Pacific.
Britain is still the great colonial power in the world and her hope of future prosperity rests on her colonies in Africa. The idea of developing their resources with help from the British Treasury is relatively new and is getting impetus from the present Government with results that may prove surprising. Private American capital is interested and it usually knows a sound investment for the future when it sees one.
KING NETZHUALCOYOTLE
From G. Davis of Los Angeles comes the following communication:
Dear Sir:
In your February “World Airways Teacher” you go back in Mexican literature further than the conquest. I suggest you read John Cornyn’s “The Song of Quetzalcoatl” by Antioch Press and give some credit to Prince Netzhualcoyotle and others.
G. Davis
Mention of Prince Netzhualcoyotle (Aztec spelling) might well have been included in the brief article on Mexico’. Netzhualcoyotle (1402-1472) King of the Aztecs was a poet. He promulgated a code of 80 civil and penal laws. He was the author of many love and religious poems. Manuel Acuna, the Mexican poet, founded the Netzhualcoyotle .Society, thus paying tribute to the Aztec poet.
(As there was no address on the post card from G. Davis we have not been able to reply direct).