Pan American
World Airways Teacher
Monument to Friendship. The obelisk shown here was designed after the Washington Monument in Washington, D. C., and was dedicated to the lasting friendship of the Dominican Republic and the United States, in New York at a joint benefit for the National Cancer Foundation about a year ago.
The Sense of the Poetic
The Dominicans are a poetic people. The same thing might be said of the other Latin Americans. One New York editor once said Latin America was the only place where poetry was still a commodity. Dominicans have used meaningful language in naming their common flowers. There is a flower named azul lejos (blue distance) and these flowers are just the color of the distant mountains. Or corazón del hombre (heart of man). The reason is that this flower changes color three times in its life span. There is one called mano poderosa (powerful hand). It is one that grips cement and climbs over it, and cadena de amor (chain of love), and a sweet, white flower named dama de noche (lady of the night).
“Now that you are talking of words,” points out my friend, “why don’t you bring up the many words which we Dominicans have given to the world?” And without hesitation these terms ring in my' ears: “tobacco,” “potato,” (when Falstaff dreams of a sumptuous reception for one of the ladies of Windsor he exclaims: “Let the sky rain potatoes”) “maize,” “hammock,” “cannibal,” etc. all from the Taino language of the island. Indeed, these words have entered into practically every language of the Western World.
Sports Gain Popularity
Sports have gained great popularity among the Dominican people. Practically every city and town has its stadium, equipped with all the necessary facilities for popular games. Contests between various schools are always well attended by the public.
Among other sports, baseball seems to have caught the Dominican fancy. On February 29, 1948, the Brooklyn Dodgers and the Montreal Royal baseball teams arrived by plane in Ciudad Trujillo. Thousands of fans gave them a roaring welcome at the “General Andrews” Airport. Manager Leo Durocher received a symbolic key of the City from Director General of Sports Frank Hatton. The Dodgers started their training next day in the new stadium of the Normal School in the Capitol, and the Montreal team at San Cristobal, 20 miles away.
The Dodger party, composed of more than 100 persons, included players, club employees and sport reporters from New York metropolitan newspapers. The visiting teams gave impetus to baseball among local players. Furthermore, they played exhibition games with the Dominicans, thus creating a fine feeling of friendship.
One Stop by Air
What will you remember after a visit to the Dominican Republic?
First and above all, the Dominican courtesy and that sincere desire to please the visitor. Also you will remember how well the family ties are maintained. Father does not step out in one direction and Mother in another; they all play together, even the small children. You can see whole families spending the afternoon around the pool. Even at the dances in the evening you’ll see children at the tables with their parents.
You will notice that the Dominicans have a strong sense of the decorative and a feeling that buildings which serve the public should be made attractive as well as functional. Humble cottages, even the poorest are whitewashed and their doors painted to please the eye.
Of Ciudad Trujillo you’ll remember many things. Although history impinges deeply upon practically everything connected with the city, so that it is difficult to write about it without referring to the past, you cannot fail to notice the tremendous progress achieved during the last decade. But as a visitor, you’ll seek the quaint, the typical, the unusual. You might enter into one of the hundreds of bars which sell fruit juices and coconut water as well as stronger drinks, or into the pastry shops and ice cream parlors, which feature tropical flavors, or into unpretentious eating places of the café type for a delicious local dish. You will see in the streets the vendors of cigarettes and flowers and fruits offering you not only their wares but their smiles and greeting as well.
Yes, the Dominican Republic is a blend of two worlds—the New and the Old in a setting of cleanliness and beauty. And think of it, it is only an over night journey from New York, with only one stop—San Juan—during the flight by Flying Clipper.
June, 1948
GREAT BRITAIN IN THE AIR AGE
(Continued from Page 1)
they insisted upon freedom and the fullest opportunities for self development.
Development overseas was paralleled by intense activity on the home front. The almost continuous wars of the eighteenth century had caused widespread distress throughout the country, while the Industrial Revolution transformed the nation from a predominantly agricultural country into a powerhouse of the world. Before the machine age farming had been the leading occupation and England produced an abundance of food, enough to export as well as to supply the needs of the people at home. However, because of the tremendous increase in population and the development of manufacturing Britain soon began to depend largely on imports for its food supply. This trend has become more and more evident until today two-thirds of the Isle’s food is imported.
A more self-sufficient economy and less dependency on imports would entail a lowering of the .standard of living, for apart from climatic or other natural factors affecting productivity of agriculture only an industrial-commercial economy could support the population in a land space slightly less than that of Wyoming, at a level enjoyed by residents of the United Kingdom.
The country’s mild climate and fertile soil make farming easy but because of the small area devoted to agriculture, the farm lands have to be intensively cultivated. The principal crops are grains, fruits, vegetables and pasture grass and included in the agricultural lands are large pastures devoted to grazing.
The growth of manufacturing enterprises required raw materials which were brought in from the New World and the Ancient East to be sent back as manufactured goods. Surplus profits were used to develop vast new resources in foreign lands (thus laying by those reserves of foreign investments that aided British war effort twice during the twentieth century). The vast prairies of the United States and the pampas of South America provided cheap and plentiful imports of food while the labor of the coal mines at home gave cheap fuel to run a machine economy.
The last century was a period of expansion for other nations too. The United States of America grew up in this time. Russia stretched out to the south and east, France and Belgium gained their colonies in Africa, Germany acquired territories in Africa and the Pacific. There was the desire that men felt for a new way of life in new countries. There was social and economic pressure arising from increased populations and from industrialism and the need for sources of raw materials and new markets. As a result in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries not only were large communities of British people established all over the world but at the same time