Pan American
10	World Airways Teacher	October, 1951
COPENHAGEN—This is the Nyhavn Canal, a narrow arm of the harbor leading into the inner city. The old gabled houses were built years ago. Like other cities in Europe and the United States, Copenhagen has modern new suburbs on the outskirts of the city.
Danish agriculture is based on the production of animal foodstuffs with butter, bacon and eggs the most important items. Before World War II Danish exports of these products formed 25%, 47% and 24% respectively of the trade of the whole world in these commodities. The entire bacon export was sent to England which also bought two-thirds of butter and egg exports. Germany, prior to the War, bought 30% of all agricultural exports. Holland, Belgium, France and Switzerland were less important customers.
Production is aided by imported grain, feeding stuffs and artificial manures from the United States, the British Empire, Norway, Chile, Russia and Argentina. Quality of production is made possible and constantly raised through the widespread Danish cooperative movement which has enabled agriculture to build numerous cooperative dairies, slaughter houses, canning and lard factories all over the country.
Large areas of Denmark are used for market gardening and seed growing in the open or for the growing of tomatoes, cucumbers or specialty flowers under glass. Hundreds of thousands of trees produce tons of apples, pears, plums, cherries and walnuts; while many acres of fruit bushes yield great quantities of gooseberries, red and black currants and raspberries. These products are eaten raw in the home market and exported with large quantities going to canning factories to be made into jam, wine or whole fruit and vegetables. 70% of all Danish exports consist of agricultural products.
Sea going fishing vessels play an important part in Danish export trade. Off-shore fishing yields only enough for local markets, but large quantities of fresh deep sea fish go to England by boat and to Germany, Belgium and France by truck. The state has built ultra-modern harbors along the nation’s long coastline which are easily accessible for unloading catches, putting them on ice and transporting them quickly to great fish markets where daily auctions are held in gigantic rooms built close to dock-sides.
There are many modern factories all over the country for canning, smoking and curing fish. Many kinds of tinned fish are produced which successfully compete in quality in world markets. About 5% of Denmark’s exports consist of fish and fish products.
Modern Danish industry, also has done well in world markets. Its development has been natural although the nation has no industrial foundation of coal, raw materials or cheap labor.
Danish industry began when machinery was needed for the development of agriculture and fishing. Native craftsmen tried to make the machines that the slaughter house, the dairy, the cannery and the small farmer required. Gradually serviceable models were perfected and the craftsman’s handiwork was passed on to factories for mass production.
Due to the quality of workmanship these machines found purchasers in many countries including England, Australia, Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Egypt, China, the Baltic States and even the United States.
An important part of industrial exports is based on agriculture in the form of prepared and industrial foods such as canned meat, poultry and butter and condensed or dried milk. Production of such products led to the development of canning and refining factories, butter and cheese factories, factories making chemical acids necessary for butter and cheese, condensed milk factories, distilleries and breweries, mills, bakeries, sugar and confectionery factories and other related industries. Prepared and industrialized foods find markets in the United States, the British Empire, India, Malaya, Indonesia and many other countries in Latin America and Africa.
The transportation problems connected with perishable foods led to- the development of modern refrigeration techniques. The need for mechanical power produced the kerosene and oil engine. Thus many new industrial concerns supplying the home market and exporting considerable quantities came into being. Although Danish soil is poor in minerals, the few on hand are used by cement factories, and china factories which have a considerable share in export trade. Denmark’s capable working class has made Danish china, silver, furniture and pottery world famous. Today all industrial exports account for 25% of total Danish sales abroad.
SWEDEN
Sweden’s wealth is based on natural resources but it too must depend on foreign trade to obtain certain raw materials to use in making products saleable abroad. The proceeds of these sales in turn are used to buy materials which the country cannot produce but which are needed to provide a satisfactory standard of living for the people.
Sweden, Europe’s most forested country,^ is slightly larger than the combined areas of — the states of Arizona and Georgia. Half its area is timberland and although these forests account for only 2.3% of the world total, nature and careful management have made Sweden an exceptionally large producer of lumber, pulp and paper. These three products which are marketed mainly in Great Britain, the United States and Germany, bring in almost 45% of all foreign trade income. In the spring, Sweden’s rivers unfreeze at their mouths first (ideal for log floating) and the very coldness of the climate results in a slow growing high quality raw material. There are 20,000 miles of log floating waterways, twice the railroad mileage of the country. By cutting no more than can be replaced by annual growth, a steady yield is obtained. Scientific management experts even talk of a 50% increase in forest output over the next eighty years. Lumber once accounted for half the country’s exports but today the trend is toward more refined products with pulp, chemical and furniture factories outnumbering sawmills.
Sweden lacks both sun heat and fuel. To keep industry going and homes warm about ten million tons of coal, coke and oil have to be imported every year. This figure would have to be almost doubled were it not for the nation’s large water power re-sources. Wood is not used for fuel to any 4P extent as it is too valuable a commercial product in other forms. Sweden possesses iron ore with a very high iron content and its production is limited by law. Although as much as fifteen million tons of ore have been mined in a single year, only one million tons are smelted within the country. Ore from the northern part of the nation is