Pan Am errca/v
Wo rid Airways Teacher
12
LET'S SEE HOW MUCH YOU HAVE LEARNED ABOUT THE SCANDINAVIAN COUNTRIES AND FINLAND
I.	Are You Able To:
1.	Name the Scandinavian countries?
2.	Name the other country which we have included in this unit?
3.	Give the capital of each country mentioned?
4.	Name the country called “The Land of the Midnight Sun?
5.	Name the country called “The Land of 1000 Lakes?”
6.	Name the most northern capital of the world?
7.	Describe a fjord and tell how it differs from water formations on the coast of the United States?
8.	Name three cities in Norway besides the capital and tell what each is noted for?
9.	Describe the part of life in Lapland which might compare with that of our Western cowboy?
10.	Tell what animal is so useful to the Lapps and some of the uses made of it?
II.	FILL IN THE BLANKS
1.	Parts of Norway and Sweden lie
within the ............. Circle.
2.	Nearly 60% of Sweden is covered
with .................
3.	The industry providing the largest source of income in Norway is ... .
4.	It would take about	hours
to reach these countries by plane and about ....... days by boat.
5.	The most important industry in
Denmark is....................
6.	Sweden is the world’s largest producer of .................
7.	The national sport of the Norwegians is ...................
8.	Large water inlets in Norway are
called .....................
9.	In Denmark all farmers belong to
10.	Sweden’s most plentiful mineral is
11...................... is the only Re-
public in this group of countries.
III.	MAP STUDY
1.	What mountains separate Norway from Sweden?
2.	The Skagerrak and Kattegat are
arms of the ............ Sea.
3.	What is Spitzbergen?
4.	What is the northernmost town in the world? In what country?
5.	Locate the Lofoten Islands. To whom do they belong?
6.	Name the leading seaport of Sweden?
7.	What capital is built on 12 islands?
8.	Locate the Gota Canal.
9.	Name a fjord.
10.	Locate Oslo, Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm.
IV.	SOME FACTS YOU SHOULD KNOW
1.	The name of a famous writer of Fairy Tales from Denmark.
1. From which country did Nobel, the giver of prizes, come?
3.	In which of these countries did Edvard Grieg compose music?
4.	In which of these countries did Jean Sibelius compose music?
5.	From which country did the dramatist Henrik Ibsen come?
6.	In which country is the famous Elsinore Castle which is described in Shakespeare’s “Hamlet”?
7.	In which country did the famous smorgasbord originate?
8.	In which country will the 1952 Olympics be held?
9.	From which of these countries does Trygve Lie, Secretary General of the U.N. come?
V.	MISCELLANEOUS
1.	Compare the Lapps to other Nomadic people you have read about.
2.	Do all Lapps wander?
3.	Have you and your family ever dined in a Swedish restaurant? Describe it.
4.	How is wealth in Lapland figured?
5.	Have you read “Kon-Tiki”?
ARE WE ALL SET TO FLY?
1.	About how long does it take to get a passport?
2.	Can you trace the 3 routes which we might take to the Scandinavian countries and Finland, on a large map?
3.	What is required for travel to the Scandinavian countries?
4.	What is required for travel to Finland? Where is this secured?
5.	What is the luggage allowance for international air travel?
6.	What is one article of outer clothing needed in all 3 Scandinavian countries?
7.	Describe the inside of a double decked plane.
8.	From what airport do we leave? Where is it located?
9.	How is it that we do not hear the noise of the engines or feel the high altitude?
10 Which clock is used in most countries abroad? How does it differ from what we use in the United States?
Bibliography
Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland References
Denmark, The Cooperative Way —
Howe, Frederick Clemson New York; Coward-McCann; 1936 Denmark, The Land And Its People — Holland, Clive
New York; Dodd, Mead & Co.; 1932 I Chose Denmark — Hackett, Francis New York; Doubleday; 1940 Sweden, Life And Landscape —
Hille, Edric A.
London; Elek; 1947 Sweden, A Model For The World —
Strode, Hudson New York; Harcourt; 1949 Sweden, The Middle Way —
Childs, Marquis William New Haven; Yale University Press; 1947 Norway, Changing And Changeless— Rothery, Agnes Edwards New York; Viking Press; 1939 The Voice Of Norway — Koht, Halvdan New York; Columbia University Press; 1944
A History Of Norway — Larsen, Karen Princeton; Princeton University Press; 1948
Finland —Jackson, John Hampden London; Allen & Unwin; 1938 Finland Forever — Strode, Hudson New York; Harcourt; 1941 Finland, The New Nation —
Rothery, Agnes Edwards New York; Viking Press; 1936 The Democratic Monarchies Of Scandinavia — Arneson, Ben Albert New York; Van Nostrand; 1949
STUDE	NT READING	Reading Level
Hatch, M. C.	More Danish	
	Tales	4
Aulaire	Children of the	
	Northlights	3-5
Aulaire	Ola	1-3
Aulaire	Hilla of Finland	4-6
Henry	Anne & Tauno	3-5
Andersen, H. C.	Fairy Tales	All grades
Smith	Foreign Lands	
	and People	5 up
Jansen & Allen	Our Neighbors in America &	
Barrows, Parker,	Europe	6 up
Sorenson	Old World Lands	6 up
Heyerdahl, T.	Kon-Tiki	7-12
Ibsen,H.	A Doll’s House	9-12
Ibsen,H.	Hedda Gabler	9-12
Undset, S.	many novels	9-12
National Geographic magazines		
October, 1951
Information for the Traveler
New Horizons, published by Pan American World Airways, is a 196-page travel report, with hundreds of photographs and especially drawn maps in two colors with up-to-date facts about the countries of the world. It gives the traveler the information he needs to plan a trip, and to enjoy it fully once it is started. Order from Pan American World Airways, Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y., check or money order for one dollar.
Sources of Information:
Finnish National Travel Office,
41 E. 50th Street, New York City Swedish Chamber of Commerce of U.S.A., 630 5th Avenue, New York City Danish Information Office,
15 Moore Street, New York City Norwegian American Chamber of Commerce, 21 E. 40th Street, New York City Norwegian Information Service,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City Norwegian Travel Information Service,
30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City
VOCABULARY
altitude—In flying—height above the earth’s surface
consular representative—representative of foreign country
passport—State Department document certifying to U. S. citizenship reclining—lying down
reservations—guarantee of space on plane or room in hotel
travel agent—Person or firm which reserves space on plane or in hotel visa—Notation on your passport by representative of country which you expect to visit
articles of consumption—things which are eaten up or used up commodities—things bought and sold cooperatives—organizations of dairy farmers and other producers in the Scandinavian countries
fjords—long and narrow inlets through which the ocean penetrates right into the heart of the mountains monarchies'—countries ruled by Kings natural resources—things produced by nature, not man made
nomadic—wandering from place to place reparations—money paid at the end of war or other destruction sinews—tendons
molybdenum—a metal used in certain steel alloys
subsidies—monies granted by government hors-d’oeuvres—appetizers (French) komse—little wooden box in which Lapps keep their babies pate—paste used on sandwiches pulka—a Lapp sled without runners russ—compares to entering Freshmen in our colleges (Norway) smorgasbord—many and varied kinds of food placed on a table (Swedish) smorresbrod—buttered bread—like an open sandwich (Danish) suana—bathhouse (Finland)
Tak—Thank you in Danish Velkommen—welcome in Norwegian Konditon—pastry shop in Sweden Kota—Lapp home Krona—money unit in Sweden Krone—money unit in Denmark Kroner—money unit in Norway (15 = $1) mark—money unit in Finland Landsting—upper house in Denmark’s congress (compares to our Senate)
Folkting—Lower House in Denmark’s congress (Compares to our House of Representatives)
Rigsdag—Congress in Denmark Storting—Congress in Norway Lagting—14 of members of Storting Odelsting—% of members of Storting Riksdag—Congress in Sweden