Pan American
______________________Would Airways Teacher
THE SCANDINAVIANS AND THE FINNS
By Enrique Portes
Although Denmark, Sweden and Norway are the three countries which we traditionally know as Scandinavia, for our purpose Finland is included here. Why? First, because Finland is located right next to the Scandinavian nations, and second, because of its historical association with them.
What is it that makes these countries similar in many ways ? Is it their geographical position, their cultural and historical background, their racial kinship? Perhaps all these factors combined make the peoples of these lands a single unit. However, there are certain characteristics which should be pointed out briefly.
A range of mountains extending down the Scandinavian Peninsula divides Sweden from Norway, so both countries boast a highly varied appearance, including some sections which are noted for their scenic beauty. Norway, famous as the “Land of the Midnight Sun”, is a country of mountains, fjords, valleys, and fertile slopes on which are found many small farms and occasional villages. Norway lies close to the Arctic region and would be uninhabitable were it not for the Gulf currents which are responsible for its more moderate climate. The winters both in Norway and in Sweden are very cold.
Although the coastline of Sweden is not so frequently and deeply penetrated by the protective fjords (meaning bays) as that of Norway, the mainland is guarded by many small islands.
The physical surface of Finland presents an alternation of low hills and valleys which slope to the Gulf of Bothnia on the east. Southern Finland is covered with a network of small lakes which have been developed into a navigable system of waterways. From these Finland derives the name of “Land of a Thousand Lakes.”
Denmark comprises the northern part of the Jutland Peninsula, a small section of land on the mainland of the continent of Europe, the islands of the Baltic Sea surrounding the Peninsula, and the Faroe Islands in the North Sea. No part of Denmark is more than 40 miles from the sea. The surface terrain is low with a small range of hills of slight elevation. Hans Christian Andersen began his story “The Ugly Duckling” with a passage that every Dane loves: “It was so lovely in the country. It was summer. The corn was yellow, the oats green; the hay was stacked in the green fields. Round the fields and meadows there were big woods, and in the middle of the woods deep lakes. Yes, it was lovely in the country.” Any Dane will tell you that it is not difficult to find the scenery depicted by Hans Christian Andersen.
The earliest historical reference to any of tifie present Scandinavian countries as such is a reference to Sweden in Tacitus’ Germania which was written during the first century A.D. Sweden is mentioned again in the English epic poem, Beozvulf. (Incidentally Beowulf did not consider himself a Swede but a Ganta Goth and speaks of “the vengeful Swedes across the lakes.”)
For centuries, however, before the time of recorded history, the Scandinavian Peninsula was inhabited by daring, fierce tribes of Teutons, the racial forebears of the peoples of Sweden and Norway. These strong, tall, blonde folk were skilled seamen who roamed and dominated the north seas. Historians believe that at the end of the first century A.D., tribes of Finno-Ugrian stock migrated from the east across the Gulf of Finland into Finland to settle the lands along the east coast of the Baltic Sea.
Thus the racial origin of the Finns is different from that of the people of the three Scandinavian countries and is shared by only one other European group — the Magyars of Hungary. Sometime during the fifth century, or the sixth, the Vikings from Scandinavia are thought to have sailed down from their Peninsula to settle the Jutland Peninsula and surrounding islands. Later other Teutonic tribes pushed up from Germany into the Jutland Peninsula so that Denmark was settled by migrations from both the north and the south.
After centuries of conflict, these countries now enjoy complete freedom and independence. They have governments which are models of democracy. Kings walk unattended.
During World War II a German trooper asked of a Copenhagen messenger boy: “Who looks after the King?” “We all do,” was the boy’s classic answer.
As a group, the peoples of these countries have contributed much to the culture of the world. Sweden has given the world scientists who have developed numerous inventions. To mention a few, there are the safety match, the steam turbine, ball bearings, a screw propeller which has changed the techniques of navigation, and the discovery of oxygen.
Alfred Nobel, the inventor of dynamite, established the Nobel prizes awarded annually to men and women who, by their scientific and cultural efforts, benefit society. Among Sweden’s great literary figures, Selma Lagerlof and August Strindberg are by far the best known beyond her borders. Norway can be proud of two outstanding figures in modern culture'—Henrik Ibsen in dramatic literature and Edvard Grieg in music. Denmark’s social legislation and high schools for adults and above all its co-operatives can well serve as unique examples to the world. It is not surprising that this beautifully cultivated land was Hans Christian Andersen’s background for the world’s favorite fairy stories. As to Finland, where the education of both the mind and the body has reached new heights, music lovers all over the world know the haunting melodies of Jean Sibelius.
Let us visit briefly the main cities of the Scandinavian Peninsula and by doing so capture the spirit of the inhabitants and share with them their daily life. Each one of the capitals of these four countries— Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Denmark— sums up, in a way their culture and their achievements.
October, 1951
Stockholm — the Swedish Venice
From a hundred islands, linked by bridges passing over the bright water, rises Stock-( holm, one of the most beautiful cities in the world.
Everywhere you turn, you can see solid palaces and office buildings as well as canals and little harbors and docks which bring their sparkling boats up into every section of the city. You notice the classic mass of the Royal Palace reflected in the water at its feet and the golden spire of the Town Hall. Bridges and boats, fishermen and ferries on the waterways, motor cars, bicycles, well-dressed men and women, and cleanliness carried to the limit.
Stockholm sometimes is called “The Venice of the North.”
Some say Stockholm lacks the dreamy beauty of Venice but also lacks its smells, for Stockholm’s waters are not stagnant; they flow strongly. If you drop anything on the streets, a street-cleaner will pick it up immediately. If you apologize, he might say: “That’s all right. It is only when foreigners come to Stockholm that I get something to do. But for them I should be out of a job.”
A city which is seven hundred years old and the center—intellectually, financially, and industrially—of a country, must certainly be so blanketed by layers upon layers of tradition and history that you cannot hope to get all of it at once or perhaps ever. However, you will become familiar with certain landmarks. The first is the Royal Palace. It took 80 years to build. In all seasons and in all hours it is splendid and Swedish painters have presented it in many moods. Prince Eugen, born in it, has transposed it to canvas gleaming through mystic dusk; Per Ekstrom sees it blurred and beautiful through falling snow. The Royal Palace is the landmark of Stockholm. Not far from it you will see the Storkyrka, the oldest church in the city, the Riddarholms-kyrka, which is the Swedish Pantheon, and
OSLO—These little misses are wearing costumes typical of Norway.