8
have developed in them a love for family life at home and a feeling of closeness to nature—a fresh kinship with that which is sturdy and vital in lakes, trees, and rich soil. Someone has described the Finnish character as “patience without passion which comes to men miraculously in times of stress.”
Copenhagen — the Friendly City
Copenhagen is a friendly city—the Danes live here. One thinks of the Danes as a family more than as a nation, for of all the European nations, the Danes seem to be the most domestic. When Shakespeare laid “Hamlet”, in the castle of Kronborg at Elsinore (in Danish, Helsingor) he focussed the limelight on a Danish castle which already was famous among seafaring nations; here every ship passing the Sound had to pay “Sound dues” which for centuries (till 1857) were one of the main sources of revenue of the Danish Crown.
Today, as in centuries gone by, Copenhagen is the gateway to the Baltic Sea. Any Dane will tell you that Absalon, the mediaeval bishop, statesman and warrior was the founder of the town. His sculptured figure, mounted on a prancing steed, overlooks today the canal of Gammel Strand. Copenhagen, which means Merchants’ Haven, has more than a million inhabitants. There you will find types from town, country and sea: the serious looking farmer, the stouthearted fisherman, the students, boys and girls in red and white caps. So many types, all anxious to help you and welcome you.
The National Tourist Association, through its Personal Information Center, will arrange an introduction to Danes who share your interests, whether model airplane flying, stamp collecting or whatever.
The first thing that will surprise you is the number of bicycles along the streets and boulevards. There are ten bicycles to one automobile. At the noon hour or day’s end, a motorist feels that the ratio is higher. Skillful but daring cyclists weave in and out, many of them balancing a small child. Some youngsters taste the joys of cycling before they learn to walk. Don’t believe, you are told, the old joke that bicycles can be picked up in the streets and put down again when you are tired of riding. “Bicycles are privately owned,” they say with a smile.
Copenhagen offers you many attractions. The changing of the King’s Guard takes place at noon. The royal reception rooms in Christianborg Palace are open to visitors Thursday through Sunday. You can visit the Rosenborg Castle, the University, the House of Parliament and the Gefion Fountain at the entrance of Copenhagen’s favorite promenade Longelinie where the statue of the Little Mermaid can also be seen. The Tivoli Gardens are in the center of town, where you can dance, hear a symphony concert and dine. In so friendly a city, animals are very fortunate. Horses, dogs, cats—they and the Danes live together on terms of mutual affection. Stores have chains beside the front door for parking-dogs and bowls of water by the chains. In Tivoli Gardens, ducks walk among the throngs of people and people walk among the ducks, each courteous to the other.
In Copenhagen you should not miss a visit to Davidsen’s, the world’s greatest sandwich restaurant. The Danish “sandwich” is
Pan Amer r can
Wo Rio Airways Tpachrh
called smorrebrod. The word literally means buttered bread, but it is actually more than that. It is like a sandwich minus the top layer of bread: not like the American sandwich with a slice of ham and lettuce, but a chunk of bread, well spread with butter, and loaded with a variety of delicacies. You’ll be surprised to see a menu three feet long by a foot wide, listing over a hundred varieties of smorrebrod—each available on any one of four different kinds of bread. The “trimmings” consist of meat, fish or egg dishes in amazing diversity.
Everywhere you see historic buildings, castles, entire streets with the houses designed in one style and period, parks with classic and modern sculpture, bathing beaches on the Sound, modern hotels, the brisk tempo of industrial life, an endless stream of cyclists—this is Copenhagen. And in the summer dusk, lights twinkle from Tivoli Gardens, laughter and joy, an orchestra striking up for an open-air ballet ... and as darkness falls, fireworks spreading a glow of color over the city.
Lapps — “Indians” of Scandinavia
There is still one group of people in Scandinavia that has not changed its habits —the Lapps. They probably originated in Asia, for many bear the Mongoloid stamp. Others, children of intermarriage, are tall and fair.
Lapland has no fixed frontier; it extends across Arctic Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Russia. Most of them live simple nomadic (wandering) lives, moving with their herds of reindeer, which may number thousands, from one country into another. Wherever the reindeer may go the Laplander must follow, for the herd represents his meat, milk, furs, and leather.
They erect tentlike homes, very much like the prairie Indians of the U.S. While the women cook and do other chores, they keep their babies in a komse, a little wooden box that can be stood against the wall or hung up on a tree. The tents, as well as most of their clothing, from shoes to caps, are made of reindeer hides. From the horns they carve beautiful spoons, knife handles, and other utensils. Even reindeer sinews (tendons) are used as thread.
The Lapps have developed an art of drawing and their themes repeat over and over again the reindeer, the mountains, and the rivers. Some of the reindeer are trained as domestic animals and are tame. On the journey they become the leaders, the first with a bell on his neck, the others following. Many of them carry the blankets and provisions, and over the backs of others are hung baskets, extending on either side, which hold the babies.
Besides the nomad Lapps there are some who have settled on the land. These have their herds of reindeer as farmers have their dairy cows. They fish and cultivate the land wherever the soil is suitable. They have their churches and schools and usually have their own community. In winter these Lapps ride in a sled without runners, called a pulka, drawn by reindeer over the snow at an unbelievable speed. Just as American Indians come to the railway stations in the desert to sell their handiwork to the travelers, so Lapps may be seen in some northern Scandinavian stations.
October, 1951
How does a Lapp become the owner of a reindeer? Simply by tossing his lasso with lightning speed and then branding the ears of the animal with registered notches. Lapp herdsmen, unlike cowboys, work on foot, yet they are equally skillful, rarely missing a lasso cast. If you ask a Lapp boy his favorite game, he probably will answer “reindeer.” He thinks it fun to lasso a playmate and pretend to notch his ear. If it is necessary, the reindeer can travel 100 miles a day.
Lapp family life is simple. When a Lapp woman takes a husband, it is to the end of her days. People treat their elders very tenderly. Once the Lapps drank grated reindeer cheese boiled in water. Then the Swedes introduced coffee. Now the reindeer people refuse to travel without a coffeepot. Many grind the beans in old-fashioned mills. Do they take sugar? Not as we do. They place the sugar in the mouth, not in the cup.
Something Typically Theirs
While the Danish Smorrebrod is a name for a sandwich of over a hundred varieties, the Swedish smorgasbord is something more elaborate.
You enter a restaurant, pick up a plate, and survey the scene. Before you is a table packed with dishes described as hors-d’oeuvres (appetizers). This is a real understatement. There are whole little fishes and slices of big fishes : an endless variety of cold meats—sausages, poultry, pâtés, (pastes) delicious morsels of every kind.
No waiter attends the table. You pass around slowly and help yourself to what you want—there may be anywhere from fifty to a hundred dishes. Soon you are ashamed of the vast hoard you have accumulated— until you see that your neighbor’s pile is even bigger. You munch your way through the amazing assortment. If you wish you
SMORGASBORD—After a liberal plate of these tasty fish, egg, cheese dishes and salads, and seconds as well, your Swedish host urges you to eat a meal and dessert too. However, he is not offended and may be even pleased, if you prefer to eat your entire meal Smorgasbord style.