Pan American
IEorio	Airways Teacher
October, 1951
can have more. Then you proceed to the main course—a steak, or a chop, with vegetables. Another table provides a wide choice of sweets. If that is not a dinner to remember, what else could be?
The Danes, in addition to their smorre-brod, meaning “buttered bread,” with a series of combinations of cheese, fish, eggs, meat, and vegetables, arranged one on top of the other in architectural height on pieces of bread, also have their usual dinner about six or seven o’clock in the evening.. They call it “Middag”-—midday. Danish specialties are numerous: “kogt Torsk” (boiled cod), “engelsk Bof” (English steak unknown to the English), “stegt Aal” (fried eel), and “Flaeskesteg med Rodkaal” (roast pork and red cabbage). A Dane will tell you that their soups are unusual: “Sod-suppe” (sweet soup made of fruit juice) and “Ollebrod” (beer soup).
In sports the Scandinavians are outstanding. Norwegians who can walk, can ski, so goes the popular saying. This is national sport and Norway is one of the ski capitals of the world. The Swedes are also great skiiers and ice skaters. The exhibition skating matches in Stockholm are famous. The Danes love to sail. Like the Norwegians they are magnificent seamen. Of course, as cyclists they have no rival.
Finland’s athletes are well known all over the world. The country has produced international champions in several events, especially in skiing, rifle and pistol shooting, swimming, running and wrestling.
The steam bath is an old and universal custom. Even the humblest Finn has a scmna, a bath house, in which he pours cold water over hot rocks to produce a thick steam which results in heavy perspiration something like steam baths in the U. S. To increase circulation of the blood, the Finn strikes his body with bath whisks made of birch twigs, and often finishes the procedure with an icy dip in the lake or a roll in the snow. Men who do that can do anything. Small wonder that in character they are strong with a sturdy independent outlook.
The majority of the dances of the Scandinavian countries are lively and spirited, reflecting the vigorous nature of these people and the climatic conditions of their respective lands. Folk dances of a vigorous nature —such as the Swedish Skobo Dance and the Oxen Dance, the Norwegian Halien, and some versions of the Danish Seven Jumps—are usually performed by men for they often challenge the strength of the performer. The costumes are much the same. A study of the folk costumes reveals that they are usually practical, especially costumes worn by the men. In some instances the costumes indicate the athletic life led by the men, showing in other cases, the influence of the climatic conditions in given sections. As a rule, the man’s costume consists of a rather soft, white shirt, knee-length trousers of a dark color worn with woolen stockings and black pumps. A woman’s costume usually consists of a white blouse, a very full skirt, white or colored stockings, and black slippers. Often an apron of various designs and colors worn over the skirt adds to the costume.
Folk festivals are often celebrated on the same day in these countries. Christmas Eve is the most important festival. On Decem-
ber 24, relatives and friends gather for feasting, singing and dancing. In Denmark there is the traditional Christmas Eve dinner. In Finland the dinner is as rich. In Norway, the dinner has in addition a special sausage made of different kinds of meat so that when sliced, specific Christmas designs or symbols appear. A feature of Christmas Eve in Sweden is the drinking of a traditional beverage known as .glogg.
Christmas Day and New Year’s Eve are celebrated with equal enthusiasm. May Day Eve (April 30—the beginning of spring) is
The Scandinavian countries and Finland play an important part in the economic, social and political life of Europe. Their agricultural, marine, forest and mineral products and the manufactured goods derived from them are sought on the Continent and throughout the world. Although they are monarchies, (ruled by kings) Denmark, Sweden and Norway are among the most democratic and socially progressive nations in the world.
Fearless, seafaring Danes first made their appearance on the world scene about the Ninth Century. Continually landing on the coast of1 Europe they conquered Normandy, invaded England (a feat never again accomplished) , and even sailed their ships as far as America. About the same time the famous Viking expeditions of Norway and Sweden were also reaching the New World. The Finns, for centuries an independent tribe, came under the control of Sweden in the Twelfth Century. In the Thirteenth Century, Norway, Sweden and Finland were united with Denmark to form one nation. Prosperity increased as trade flourished and colonies were established in Greenland and Iceland. Sweden broke away from the Union in 1553. In 1815, due to the fact that Denmark sided with Napoleon, Norway was given to- Sweden. In 1721 the Czar of Russia annexed a large part of Finland and in 1809 captured the entire country from Sweden. In 1905 Norway declared itself free from Sweden. In 1918, after the collapse of Czarist Russia, Finland was recognized as an independent nation.
All during the Twentieth Century, these four nations occupying the northern and western peninsulas of Europe have found themselves in a dangerous position because of frequent outbreaks of war on that Continent. Even now, Finland, the small nation which captured the admiration of the American people by being the only country that continually paid World War I debts to the United States, finds parts of its territory occupied by the U.S.S.R.
Nevertheless the Scandinavian countries have chosen to participate directly in world affairs, as symbolized by the election of Trygve Lie of Norway as Secretary General of the United Nations.
Their decision was based in part on the strong desire of the Scandinavian peoples to remain free and to see freedom thrive elsewhere. It was also based on the fact that
9
celebrated with singing and dancing. May Day, celebrated on May 1, continues the festivities begun the night before. Speeches by leading citizens and dances constitute the main features. The most distinctive of the festivals and known as St. John’s Eve or Midsummer Eve is celebrated on the evening of June 23, since June 24 is the longest day of the year. It consists of dancing, singing and merrymaking.
Even if your stay in any of these four countries is limited to a few days, the memory will be cherished for ever.
active foreign commerce—only possible in a peaceful world—is the foundation of their prosperity. The value of their import and export trade, compared to population, amounts to almost four times that of the United States. In order to achieve a reasonable standard of living for their people it is absolutely necessary for them to exchange their products and services for goods of other countries. Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland have each secured a definite place in the markets of the world. They have done this despite disadvantages of climate and lack of needed raw materials. In each case success has been due to individual thrift, love of work and the skill of their people to make the most of the resources at hand.
Shipping services represent important sources of revenue for all three Scandinavian countries. Denmark, Sweden and Norway have each developed a large merchant marine. These fleets while they carry national imports and exports are chiefly engaged in carrying goods for other countries. Many thousands of tons of cargo pass each year through the ports of Copenhagen in Denmark, Stockholm in Sweden, and Oslo and Bergen in Norway.
Some idea of the volume may be gained from the fact that Swedish tonnage alone passing through Oresund (between Sweden and Denmark) during one year equals two-thirds of that of all nations that used the Panama Canal in pre-war years. Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland each have their own national airline. In carrying out service beyond their borders, the three Scandinavian countries have organized a jointly owned airline system. Kastrup Airport near Copenhagen, Bromma Airport near Stockholm, Gordermoen Airport near Oslo and Malmi Airport near Helsinki are all less than 24 hours away from New York via Pan American World Airways’ giant Flying Clippers.
DENMARK
Denmark is slightly smaller in size than the combined areas of the states of New Hampshire and New Jersey and has 4,600,000 people. It possesses no raw materials and does not have a climate which can produce a variety of crops. Despite these obstacles the Danes have achieved a great reputation for raising agricultural products of the highest quality.
INTERNATIONAL TRADE OF SCANDINAVIA AND FINLAND
By Lou A. Phillips