4
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
October, 1951
THE SCANDINAVIAN COUNTRIES AND FINLAND By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM:
How are the aims, ideals, and problems of the peoples of these countries similar to and inter-related with those of the United States?
1.1	Reasons for Selection:
1.	Music and literature from this area has become familiar to most of the children.
2.	Trygve Lie of the U.N. comes from this region.
3.	The 1952 Olympics will be held in Finland.
4.	World trade between the U. S. and these nations is increasing and we should become more familiar with what products we receive from other lands and what goods we send away.
5.	To develop a better understanding among the peoples of the world we must know more about these peoples.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION — 3 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT
3.1	Approach
1.	Newspaper article . . . Trygve L i e back from Norway. U. N. soon to meet in New York headquarters (pictures of new meeting rooms).
2.	Columbus Day. Talk about the discovery of America. Were there others who sailed to these shores before Columbus?
3.	A story by Hans Christian Andersen or a record by Edvard Grieg. What were the lands like that these famous people came from?
4.	A study of the peoples of the world according to regions to And out what part geographic location plays in the life of a country. Start with the Scandinavian countries and Finland.
3.2	Subsidiary problems
1.	How have air routes helped to bring us closer to these countries?
2.	How do the governments of these countries compare to the government of the United States?
3.	How have these people contributed to the culture of the U.S.?
4.	How do the people of these lands live and work?
5.	What are some of the main cities, historic places, and interesting customs we should know about?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES
4.1	Subject Matter
1.	Geographic influences; location; climatic factors; coastline; variety and location of resources; effects on life of people.
2.	People; population; skills; education and culture; life and work in various parts of countries: industries; industrial centers; contributions of famous people.
3.	Trade relations; exports; imports; trade centers; ports.
3,000,000 MILES OF TRAVELING
The five persons who contributed to the planning, writing and preparation of maps for this unit on Scandinavia and Finland, among them have travelled more than 3,000,000 miles throughout the world. One or more has visited every state in the United States, the countries covered by this unit, all of the Latin American countries, most of Europe, all of the countries reached by PAA in the Pacific area and many places in the Orient.
The staff:
Eugenie G. Nadelman, Curriculum Assistant, New York City Board of Education.
Enrique Portes, teacher and writer.
Lou A. Phillips, writer and foreign trade specialist.
Jack McDonnell, T. J. Peters Studio.
George Gardner, Educational Director, Pan American World Airways.
4.	Transportation and communication; how reached by air; boat.
5.	Current events; government.
A.	Social Studies (material follows)
B.	Language Arts
1.	new words
2.	spelling
3.	letters
4.	compositions: “Land of the Midnight Sun”, “Fishing in a Fjord”, “I Visited the Lapps”, “Route to the Olympics.”
5.	literature—Hans Christian Andersen, Henrik Ibsen.
C.	Science
1.	agriculture in hilly countries
2.	effects of glacial movements
3.	differences of climate
4.	cold baths in cold countries
5.	inventions
D.	Music
Records of Grieg, Sibelius
E.	Health
1.	exceptional health records in these countries
2.	dances of each country
4.2	Skills
1.	Research
2.	Reports
3.	Map study
4.	Quiz
4.3	Attitudes—I nterests—U nderstandings
1.	Appreciation of working together— cooperative societies
2.	Appreciation of surmounting difficulties—farming untillable soil; growing seasons in cold climates.
3.	Appreciation of love of freedom— history and government
4.	Interests in customs of these countries—food; dances; holidays
4.4	Social Development
Working with others, sharing, committee work, assuming responsibilities; all helping to bring the class closer to these countries.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES
5.1	Arts & Crafts
Maps; outline of fjords
Exhibits of things from these countries
5.2	Dramatization
Some of Hans Christian Andersen’s stories; holiday or festival.
5.3	Creative
Writing, music, dancing
5.4	Culmination
Movie, exhibit, scrap book, a luncheon
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION
1.	Printed materials
2.	Audio and visual materials.
VII.	LEADS TO NEW UNITS
Comparison of this region with another to find significance in the world community; regional problems; trade relations.
THE CLIPPER—This is the circular stairway leading from the passenger deck above to the lounge on the lower deck. The steward serves refreshments from a little galley at the left.