Pan American
World Airways Teacher
October, 1951
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. VIII No. 2
DOUBLE-DECKED “STRATO” CLIPPER—This photo shows the fueling of the big Clippers gasoline tanks and stowing of cargo and baggage. Cargo is carried in the forward part of the lower deck and in a compartment aft, just ahead of the tail. Baggage
I’oes into a compartment amidships just behind the wing. These big Clippers fly on both the Atlantic and the Pacific. See the '-.nit beginning on page 3 for a description of a Transatlantic flight.
TRAVEL ABROAD BY TEACHERS AND STUDENTS
In spite of troubled conditions throughout the world, the drafting into the armed services of many young men, and the pursetightening effect of inflation, travel for educational purposes continued to be an important factor in both education and the travel industry during the 1950-51 school term, and during the summer of 1951.
Comprehensive statistics on the number of teacher and student travelers are not available, but there are two good indications. The Institute of International Education, in a census of students from abroad enrolled in U. S. colleges and universities last year, found that there were 29,813 such students. This is a firm figure, as every college campus was canvassed. It is estimated that the number of U. S. students who went abroad last summer was somewhat less.
As to summer travel in 1951, the Council on Student Travel reports that the total was approximately 10,000. This was based on the movements of students in which the Council participated, including students traveling by chartered ships, chartered planes and by regular air lines and steamship services. The actual total—including students who made their own arrangements
■would probably be greater.
■I The Council reports a decline of about one-third from the total of student travel in the summer of 1950. Conditions being what they were, both educators and travel specialists, regard the 1951 total as a good showing, and as an indication that the concept of travel for educational purposes is
firmly established.
Many of these students had financial assistance in the form of government aid under the Educational Exchange Act, Ful-bright Act, and other programs, and through fellowships and scholarships provided by universities, educational agencies and business firms (including 50 PA A Travel Fellowships for travel between the U. S. and Latin America). The Institute of International Education, incidentally, is a primary source of information about scholarships for international study. It answered 100,000 inquiries from persons in all parts of the world last year. Address: 2 West 45th Street, New York City.
The strong probability that a tourist-class air service will be established for travel across the Atlantic in 1952 is a matter of special significance to those who are interested in educational travel. A round trip fare of $405 has been proposed. The Civil Aeronautics Board has taken the position that the service should be established in the spring of 1952. The air lines flying the Atlantic (including U.S. and foreign flag carriers) have agreed to permit inauguration of tourist class service October 1, 1952. All interested companies and individuals are hoping for an early decision, as to the beginning date.
Experience with tourist-class service is extensive, and it has proved to be a powerful stimulus to travel. The first tourist service, inaugurated by Pan American World Airways on the route between New York
City and San Juan, Puerto Rico, was inaugurated in March of 1949. Within five months the number of passengers traveling over the route had trebled. Similar increases in traffic resulted from establishment of service by domestic air lines, operating in the United States, and on other PAA routes.
Proponents of tourist-class service are confident that comparable increases in traffic would result from establishment of tourist-class service on the Atlantic.
Still another factor important to educational travel for 1952 is the steadily increasing reservoir of experience in the making of arrangements for such travel by travel agents, and by educators. Educational travel is nothing new. The “Grand Tour” of Europe was an honored tradition of Grandfather’s day—but it was something that only those with means could afford. Less elaborate tours to Europe, Latin America, and Europe have been offered for years—there are educators who have taken groups of students or teachers abroad every year for twenty years or more.
Since World War II, the practice has grown steadily. Each year sees the indoctrination of additional tour conductors, and new experience is gained by those who organize the groups, make the arrangements for transportation, hotels, instruction and sightseeing, and send them on their way.
It is a movement in education which now has so much momentum that it will continue in the face of anything short of total war.