October, 1951
almost entirely exported mainly to the United States and Great Britain. The phosphorus free ores of central Sweden are used by Swedish industries as the basis of their famous quality steels.
By international standards Swedish industries are not large but many operate on a world wide basis. They either export a large part of their output or manufacture in plants abroad. This is particularly true of industries based on some Swedish invention or on Swedish quality production such as Aga light beacons, Electrolux refrigerators, de Laval separators or SKF ball bearings.
Sweden’s industrial activities are not concentrated in its cities. Ownership of large tracts of land by business corporations is characteristic of the country. Basic resources such as forests, mines and waterfalls for electric power, permit a. wide variety of operations, ranging from lumber, pulp and joinery mills to high grade steelworks and modern chemical industries. Joint ownership between private business and government exists in the fields of electrical power, mining, forest production, tobacco manufacturing and oil production from shale.
More than two thirds of the raw materials for Sweden’s industries have to be imported. The textile industry is entirely dependent on raw cotton from Brazil, Egypt, the Belgian Congo, Pakistan, India and the United States; on yarn from Italy and the United States; and on wool from Australia. Other import items are products of warmer lands such as: citrus fruits from Italy and Spain; spices from Indonesia and the British West Indies; coffee from Latin America; tobacco from the United States and Greece; and wines from France, Spain and Portugal. Before World War II, automobiles coming mostly from the United States also ranked high on the list accounting for more than 5% of the total amount of purchases abroad. Ores and engineering products have an export value approaching that of forest products.
Today through intensive effort and government help Sweden grows most of the foods needed. Scientific research has produced hardier grains and despite the northerly climate the yield per acre compares favorably with that in other European countries. In the best wheat growing districts of southern Sweden the yield is about three times the United States or Canadian average. Apart from the coldness of the climate however, early summers tend to be dry and heavy rains come at harvest time. Nearly half of farm income comes from dairy products. Most farms are worked by owners and their families and 90% of the produce is marketed cooperatively through producer organizations. For full grain and dairy production feed and fertilizers must be imported. Fish is an important item in the Swedish diet with the average family consuming over one hundred pounds a year. Salt water fish are most important but large quantities come from the lakes and rivers which cover an area as large as all the country’s farmland.
NORWAY
Norway has an area slightly smaller than that of the states of Mississippi and South
Pan Ammrcan
World Airways Teacher
Dakota combined, and a population of 3 million. With one-fourth of its surface in timberland, forestry and forest products have always played an important part in the nation’s economy. As in Sweden, saw mill products which were the most important forest exports during the last century are being outranked by pulp and paper pulp exports. Printing, writing, packing paper, sulphite and sulphate pulp, cellulose and plastic chemicals are the major exported forest materials. Paper pulp goes principally to Great Britain and Western European countries while newspaper is destined mainly to the United States, Denmark and Latin America.
Fishing has long been one of the most important sources of income in Norway. It is carried out for the most part by small boats. Apparatus has gradually become more modern but there is not much trawling. More fish are brought ashore in Norway than in any other European country and there are plenty for export in fresh and frozen form.
Fish oils and tinned sardines are the primary export products of an important canning industry. Fish and fish products account for one fourth of the total export value. Large quantities of fresh fish are sent to Great Britain while dried fish is destined for Italy, Portugal, Spain and Latin America. Herring exports go to Poland, Germany and the U.S.S.R. Canned fish is sent to the United States, Great Britain and Australia.
One third of the Norwegian population is employed in agriculture. An important feature of farm economy is the combination of agriculture with fishing in coastal districts and with forestry in the interior. A newly developed extra source of income for farmers is now found in the raising of fur bearing animals such as silver, blue and platinum foxes and mink. Owing to the ideal climatic conditions and the abundance of fish foods, the furs of these animals have the reputation of being among the finest in the world.
Dairying is the principal type of farming making up three-fourths of farm production. Really big farms are few and most are worked by owners and their families. Little more than half of the grain needed can be produced and the balance must be imported mostly from the United States and Russia. Hay and potatoes are grown in large quantities but 80% to 90% of wheat and rye used must be imported. Fruit and berries are grown in the southern part of the country and preserving and deep freezing factories are becoming increasingly important.
The development of manufacturing in Norway has been determined by abundant power resources of water falls and the natural resources available. Industries are divided into two classes: those producing mainly for export and those supplying the home market. Besides paper and pulp industries, those engaged in electro-chemical production, the production of fertilizer and electro-metallurgical work producing iron alloys and aluminum have developed on a large scale. All are dependent on hydroelectric power. The chief mining industrial
11
products are iron ore, molybdenum, copper ore and sulphur pyrites. Quantities of iron ore are exported to the United States and Germany.
Of the export industries the production of aluminum and fertilizer are scheduled for expansion. Industries producing for the home market use large quantities of imported raw materials. These industries include : iron and engineering; the production of textile goods and clothing; and the production of foodstuffs and other articles of consumption.
Mineral oils are imported from the Near East; fuel, fuel oils and iron for shipbuilding from the United States; other iron and steel from Sweden, Germany and Belgium; electrical machinery from the United States and Great Britain; and textile raw materials from Great Britain, Belgium and Germany.
The production of foodstuffs and other articles of consumption covers domestic demand for the most part. Coffee, tea and cocoa are imported from Latin America. It is planned to increase textile production and to build up an iron works industry manufacturing products made with ore and scrap iron.
FINLAND
Finland covers an area slightly less than that of the states of New Mexico and New Hampshire combined and has a population of 4 million. Despite the fact that it has a rugged climate and surface and extends far north into extremely cold latitudes it is mainly an agricultural country. 60% of its population is engaged in farming which is carried on under great difficulty.
Less than 10% of the country’s soil is tillable but the small percentage that is suitable is very rich. Hay, oats, rye and barley are grown in sufficient quantities but the domestic wheat supply falls far short of the nation’s needs. Large quantities of wheat are imported from the United States, Canada and the U.S.S.R. Coffee is imported from Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela. Hardy Finnish farmers have developed an important dairy industry however, chiefly in the southern part of the country. Butter and cheese are exported to Great Britain.
Forestry, including lumbering and the manufacturing of vast quantities of pulp, paper and wood products, is the leading industry of Finland. Exports in this field are destined mainly to the United States and Great Britain. The fishing industry is relatively important as it employs a large part of the population but very little fish or fish products are exported.
Considerable amounts of Finnish products are also exported to the U.S.S.R. as war reparations due to recent hostilities between the two nations.
The activities of the Scandinavian countries and Finland have been, and undoubtedly will continue to be, closely interwoven. Their sea and air trade routes stretch all over the world. Commercial ties with the United States are strengthened by our common love of freedom and the dignity of the individual. It is good that there are eighteen million such people working for the same things we are striving for in the world.