October, 1951
Pan Amerrcan
World A/Rmrs Trachrr
7
OSLO—On Constitution Day, which is May 17, the boys and girls who correspond to high school seniors in the United States, stage a parade past the Kings Palace. (See text).
the House of Nobles, an example of fine architecture.
Because the nights are light, flowers grow to large size; because both days and nights are cool they retain their crispness and brilliance for a long time. Thus the parks of Stockholm seem to be always in bloom. Every café is decorated with potted plants. Every window sill is ablaze with buds and blossoms, and no table is too humble to be without its vase of flowers.
In Stockholm you can see vessels of all sizes departing from what seems like every street corner and bound for all parts of the globe. You can cross the city by water, for canals and branches and bays of the Baltic penetrate it. You can go to a park or a great outdoor museum such as Skansen where there are arranged with pleasing irregularity old cottages and buildings from every part of Sweden, each with its accompanying garden, each furnished completely from kitchen pots to antique wall-hangings just as it was originally. Boys and girls in peasant costume dance in the open to the rhythm of an old fiddler. A Lapp family pursues its routine in a genuine Lapp hut. Skansen gives you an authentic idea of the life of Sweden as it was long ago.
Oslo — the Vivacious
Oslo, the capital of Norway, is a lively city. Coming from sedate Stockholm you notice instantly the livelier atmosphere of its streets and cafés. Karl Johans Gate, the capital’s main street, is a ribbon of life and even gaiety far into the night. Oslo’s excitement reaches its annual peak on May 17, the national holiday. On that day in 1814 Norway adopted a. democratic constitution.
The nine-hundred-year-old city of Oslo is full of fascinating things. It is surrounded by wooded hills and distant snow-capped peaks. Seen from the air, it is as beautiful as any city in the world. Oslo is situated at the northern end of Oslo Fjord in southern Norway. The land, with the city, rises slowly, gradually, from the sea to a height of one thousand feet. The upland and forest come down to meet the houses. The Fortress Akershus stands dominating the harbor and tells its history from the ancient saga time to the present. You’ll see the changing of the guards at the Royal Palace, the beautiful buildings of the University of Oslo, the National Theatre, and the Nobel Institute where the prizes are awarded. At 2 o’clock, when most schools and the University have a recess, the military band plays in the students’ park opposite the University, and practically everybody promenades up and down Karl Johans Gate, or drops into a café or restaurant for refreshments.
On May 17 of each year joy is unconfined, particularly among the pre-university students, boys and girls alike. The slang word russ is used to designate the year-before-university student of either sex. Early in the morning each russ dons a red hat. Many of the boys wear red bow ties and have red stripes down the sides of their trousers. The girls wear red coats or jackets. The students wander around the streets and parks of the city, then form into a procession, and the student lines then march past the palace, to be reviewed by the King. That is Constitution Day in Oslo.
University examinations take place during the full month following that date. Those who pass become university men and women.
Bergen
Leaving Oslo you can cross the mountain by rail to Bergen, second largest city. For Norwegians Bergen is the birth place of their modern culture. Ole Bull, a native Bergener, started the artistic growth in the 19th century first by becoming a celebrated violinist, and later by founding the National Stage. Bull also discovered the famous composer Edvard Grieg whose home may now be seen in Bergen. The National Stage in Bergen, “spreading” also to Oslo, won the interest of Bjornson and Ibsen, each of whom took a turn at directing it.
Bergen is a charming town, quaint and busy, a center for the fishing industry. The Bergen people are quick-witted, and the humorous remarks that pass between buyers and fishermen make it a gay amusing scene. It is not unusual to see in the fish market an otherwise dignified man or woman carrying in one hand a fish by a cord through its head—a fish so long that it reaches the ground—and in the other a big bunch of bright flowers.
Trondheim
You leave Bergen for Trondheim, by boat, seeing some of the most beautiful fjords on the way. There are many bathing resorts along these fjords. Trondheim is the third largest city, and was the capital of Norway for centuries. All the Norwegian Kings, including the present, King Haakon the Seventh, were crowned in the splendid cathedral dating from about 1075 and still being built today. Norway’s great Technical School is here. The King’s residence may be seen at the seaport of St. Avanger. The River Nid runs through the town and can be crossed by four graceful bridges. In the Laerdal River can be found the “best salmon in the world.” The waters of Lake Gjende are the Peer Gynt country. Sailing, fishing and skiing are all wonderful near Trondheim.
Helsinki---Capital of Finland
Helsinki, the most northern capital in the world, is built on a peninsula of irregular shape, protected from the open sea by a belt of beautiful islands. The city has taken advantage of its geographical position and built harbors on three sides. Passenger-steamers can be tied up in the heart of the capital. Most buildings are light in color, and the origin of the name “White City of the North” is apparent from the first impression you get as your PAA Clipper approaches Helsinki.
Helsinki was founded some 400 years ago. Soon it became a center of trade between East and West. Great progress was made after Finland gained its independence in 1917. There were 2,500 people in Helsinki in 1812, now there are 400,000—one tenth of the total population of the country.
Helsinki is a lively, cultural, commercial and industrial city. It has a highly modern appearance and gives an impression of space and airiness. Helsinki has broad boulevards, beautiful parks, churches, open-air cafés, and numerous continental hotels and restaurants. Almost in the very center is the Stadium, where the Olympic Games will be held in 1952.
Helsinki is proud of its museums, its Opera, theaters, concert halls and art galleries, and especially of its libraries rich in unusual collections of rare and modern books. There is a lot to be seen in Helsinki. You can take a walk through parks and squares, where some of Finland’s most magnificent sculpture is waiting for you. In front of Stockman’s store on the Main Square rises the famous statue of the “Three Smiths.” Near the Finland Travel Bureau, Esplanaadikatu, 19, is the statue of “The Maid of Helsinki rising from the sea,” and on Observatory Hill one of Finland’s most famous statues “Shipwrecked.”
On leaving Finland you will carry in your heart unforgettable memories of the Finns. These people are said to have more words of endearment in their language than those of any other country. Their long winters