October, 1951
Preparation for Traveling
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
DOUBLE DECKED “STRATO” CLIPPER—For our (light across the Atlantic in the President service, there are 47 passengers. On the regular (lights there are 60. But this airplane can carry more passengers on shorter (lights, and the group o( 100 persons shown in this picture actually made a demonstration (light in the Double Decked “Strato” Clipper.
Plans for travel overseas have to be started well in advance.
A passport usually is required and this takes two or three weeks. We need reservations on the air line, and at hotels. We probably want to shop for new clothing, and possibly luggage. And most of all we must learn as much as possible about the countries we are to visit, and about the people who live there.
To start our preparations for a trip to Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, we call upon a travel agent, or a representative of Pan American World Airways at least a month in advance.
We find there are three different routes we can use for the trip: (1) the northerly route by way of Iceland, (2) by way of Scotland, Holland and Germany and (3) via London, Amsterdam and Hamburg to Copenhagen, Denmark. (See map above.)
Let’s take the route by way of London. This will give us an opportunity to fly on the deluxe “President” service to England, and then transfer to a standard luxury Clipper for the rest of the journey.
The travel agent or traffic representative of the air line will telephone or wire for the space reservations on the airplanes immediately and will give us information about passport requirements.
For Norway, Sweden and Denmark, we need only the passport. To get it we go in person, or write, to an office of the State Department’s Passport Division to obtain the application form. This must be filled out, and submitted to the State Department with a birth certificate or naturalization papers (to prove citizenship) along with a check for the fee. The passport normally will be issued in two or three weeks.
For Finland, we need the passport, also a visa, which is a notation on the passport by a diplomatic or consular representative of Finland in the United States. For this we must go to the Finnish Legation in Washington or a consular office of Finland.
What about clothing?
To begin with, we learn that the baggage allowance for international air travel is 66 pounds—considerably more than the baggage allowance for air travel within the United States, and ample for a good supply of clothing and other personal effects. However, we don’t want to waste any of it, so we select luggage which is sturdy, but light in weight, and choose very carefully the articles of clothing and other things to take with us so that we will have what we really need and want.
As the Scandinavian countries and Finland are northern countries, clothing wanted will be medium to heavy, depending on the time of the year, and with some variations from one country to another, as follows :
Norway: Warm, heavy clothing for winter; medium weight for summer. Sweaters and raincoats are needed. Leave light weight cottons and silks at home.
Sweden: Woolens for winter. Summer is cool, too, so leave summer clothes at home and bring a top coat and rain coat.
Denmark: As there are no extremes of weather, wool suits and dresses are suitable the year round. Furs are good in winter. A rain coat is needed.
Finland: Heavy warm clothes for winter months, light weight clothes for summer. Coat will be wanted even in summer.
To learn about the countries and the people who live there we read books and magazine articles and talk to people who have gone there before. The pages of this unit give a good sampling of the information.
The Trip
Our Clipper for the trip to the Scandinavian countries departs from New York.
We’ll arrive in New York a day or so in advance, to have some time for sightseeing, and as soon as we get there we’ll call at the PAA office with our tickets and passports so that the air line representative can check everything.
On the day of departure, we leave the air lines terminal in the heart of Manhattan soon after lunch, arriving at the big new International airport on Long Island in plenty of time for the takeoff at 1600. (Clipper schedules are listed in terms of the 24 hour clock, which is used generally in most of the countries abroad. In terms of the clock with which we are more familiar in the U. S., 1600 means 4 p.m.)
Once our baggage is checked, we wait for the announcement: “Flight 100, the President, now loading at Gate One.”
We go aboard, take our seats, fasten seat belts, and before we realize what goes on the four engines are turning up with a mighty roar. The big Clipper moves to the end of the runway, pauses there, and then starts its take off run. It gathers speed, and in a few seconds lifts into the air, and starts off on its course across the ocean.
Once flight altitude is reached the sign “Fasten seat belts” is darkened. We’ve been watching for this, since we want to do a
little exploring in the airplane.
We are traveling aboard the Double Decked “Strato” Clipper, built by Boeing, which is the biggest and most powerful commercial plane ever constructed.
On this main passenger deck are reclining seats, and compartments which can be made up into berths. We hear very little noise from the engines, as the Clippers are soundproofed. We rise to 15,000 or even 25,000 feet above the surface of the ocean, but we feel no discomfort since the Clippers are “pressurized.”
Midway on this passenger deck is a circular stairway leading below. Going down these steps we find a lounge where we may sit and read, or get acquainted with our fellow passengers.
Later we return to our seats, and the stewardess serves dinner. It is such a dinner as we might have at the finest hotel, with appetizer, soup, roast, vegetables, salad and dessert. Later when it is time for sleep the steward and stewardess will make up the berths for those passengers who have reserved them. For those who have not, the reclining chairs offer complete comfort for the quick over-night trip to London.
Landing at London Airport on schedule at 9:45 o’clock in the morning, we have only about two hours to wait before boarding another Clipper, this time a Lockheed Constellation, for the journey to Hamburg and Copenhagen. We are due at Denmark’s capital at 16:30, or 4:30 p.m., Denmark local time.
We left New York at 4 p.m. Eastern Standard Time yesterday and arrive at 4:30 p.m. 15th Meridian East Time. The difference in the clocks between New York and Denmark is 6 hours, so we actually have been en route only 18$4 hours!