4
Pan Amer îca N
Won 10 A/gmrs Teacher
Our Clipper
Flying from New York to the Union of South Africa presents no more of a problem than a hop to London, Paris or Rome.
Pan American simplified the whole thing this Spring by introducing first class and tourist service from New York to Johannesburg via luxurious, 300-mile-an-hour, Super-6 Clipper thereby placing low-fare transportation within the reach of the average traveler.
From New York’s Idlewild airport our Clipper speeds us across more than 2,000 miles of Atlantic waters to set down on tiny Santa Maria Island in the Azores. This was the last landfall raised by Columbus before he sighted the Bahamas two months and nine days later.
The overnight flight from New York pauses briefly at this European outpost and then continues to Lisbon, capital of Portugal, arriving there in time for breakfast.
Built like Rome, on seven hills, Lisbon is a gay and beautiful city. Rising from the blue Atlantic, its pastel tinted buildings form a brilliant setting against green clad hillsides.
As in Spain, the Moors left many reminders of their occupation. The castle overlooking the city, the Belem Tower, many of its beautiful churches and dwellings give evidence of their influence.
A seacoast city in a seafaring nation, Lisbon is noted for its many delectable seafood dishes. Excellent restaurants cater not only to those who desire to sample Portuguese cooking, but to those who prefer French, Italian or Austrian dishes as well.
A scant 15 miles from Lisbon is Estoril, a seaside resort that rivals any on the Riviera. In a wonderful year-round climate visitors enjoy its parks, beaches, and many other delightful attractions.
Leaving Lisbon our Clipper heads southward and soon we catch our first glimpse of so-called Dark Continent. Passing Morocco, the name Casablanca springs to mind. It’s the place where British and American troops stormed ashore in November 1942 to wrest French West Africa from the Germans as a dress rehearsal for the Italian invasion.
Trip to the Union of
Below on one hand stretch great segments of the Sahara Desert while the Canary Islands dot the Atlantic on the other.
Our Clipper comes in for a short rest at Dakar, principal city of French West Africa, a federation of eight colonies under a French high commissioner. Dakar is linked to South America by Panair do Brasil. At Dakar we encounter our first native Africans.
Four hours later we are at Roberts Field, close to Monrovia, Liberia. This is the only Negro republic in Africa. It was founded, curiously enough, by the American Colonization Society, organized in the United States in 1816 to help freed slaves return to Africa. Monrovia, a city of 25,000, was named after President James Monroe one of its founders.
A flight of approximately three hours places us in Accra, capital of the Gold Coast after which we’re off for another capital, Leopoldville, in the Belgian Congo.
Largest city in Central Africa, it boasts first class hotels, modern conveniences and a variety of sights. In old Leopoldville is the site of Henry Stanley’s camp. Stanley, in 1871, was sent out by James Gordon Bennett, editor of the New York Herald, to find David Livingstone, a missionary presumed to be lost in the wilds of Africa. Stanley encountered Livingstone in the interior greeting him with the famous salutation: “Dr. Livingstone I presume.”
Across the Congo is Brazzaville in French Equatorial Africa. This is a distinctly French community which is the starting point for many sightseeing trips into the interior.
The final leg of our flight takes us to the Union of South Africa, which comprises the Cape of Good Hope, Natal, Orange Free State and Transvaal.
The seven hour flight from Leopoldville is over rich green territory but as we approach Johannesburg, terminus of our flight, we are struck by its contrast to this lush, wild scenery.
For those arriving by night it’s a gem of many sparkling lights set in velvet. If the
South Africa
approach is by day the tourist is impressed by its size and similarity of appearance to many a large United States city. These things are all the more remarkable when we consider that Johannesburg sprang from a huddle of grass-covered shacks to a modern metropolis within the span of some sixty years.
Seat of the largest gold mining industry in the world it reflects this opulence in skyscrapers, fine shops, excellent restaurant and many other attractions. Americans are at home in its busy streets with such reminders as milk bars, hot dog stands and ice cream stores.
Johannesburg is a place of wonderful views. From Herman Eckstein Park, with its Zoological Gardens, there’s a sweeping vista of the Transvaal. Bus tours circle the town passing through magnificent scenery to the suburbs. At nearby resorts there is excellent boating and fishing.
Because of its 5,700 foot elevation above the sea, Johannesburg has a delightful climate. It can be cold in early morning but by noon the sun warms the atmosphere to near 80. Because of a total absence of fog and no humidity, the air is warm and bracing.
From Johannesburg, by air, rail or bus, one may visit scores of attractions. Pretoria, 35 miles distant, is called the “Flower of the Transvaal.” Not too far away is the famous Premier Diamond Mine where the Cullinan diamond was found in 1905.
One of the great natural wonders of the world, “Victoria Falls,” on the Zambesi River, 600 miles from Johannesburg, is a chief tourist attraction. Discovered by Dr. Livingstone in 1855, the 325 foot high cataract outglamors Niagara, only half as large. Accommodations are more than adequate with the luxurious Victoria Falls Hotel and other hostelries available.	M
Three hundred miles from Johannesburg is the famous Kimberley Diamond mine. Abandoned when shaft mining replaced open mining in the last century, it’s a huge 450-foot hole a mile wide. At Windhoek, capital of South West Africa excellent German beer is the pride of the area.