Pan America y
Would	Airways Teacher
13
3.	Where are most of the gold mines situated?
. DIAMONDS
What is the name of the most famous diamond mine?
2.	What is a carat?
3.	What is the name of the world’s largest diamond?
4.	What are “dry diggings?”
5.	What is the hub of the diamond industry?
6.	How many pounds of ore must be processed to recover a pound of diamonds?
7.	What are some uses of diamonds?
IV.	INDUSTRIES
1.	What factors make agriculture difficult?
2.	How does South Africa rank in production of wool?
3.	What is a fairly recent endeavor in the fur industry in South Africa?
4.	What is mohair? From where does it come?
5.	What do they call corn?
6.	What is sorghum?
7.	What other important metals are produced in South Africa?
V.	CITIES
1.	Which city is called “flower of the Transvaal”?
2.	Which city is the chief port and joint capital?
3.	Which is the “gold” city?
4.	Which is the second port?
5.	Which is the capital?
6.	In which coastal city are the Indian and native markets?
VI.	LOCATION QUESTIONS
On a map locate:
Equator, Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, Port Elizabeth, Indian Ocean, East London, Mossel Bay, Cape of Good Hope, Capetown, Johannesburg, Pretoria, Durban, Zambezi River, Limpopo River, Malopa River, Swaziland, Orange River, the four provinces, Mozambique, Southern Rhodesia, Madagascar.
VII.	WRITE a fact about each of the following:
Haggard, Baker, Burton, da Gama, Park, eodore Roosevelt, Smuts, Speke, Stanley, ruger, Leopold II, Livingstone, Diaz, Botha, Rhodes, van Riebeeck.
VIII.	Discussion Questions:
1.	Discuss the similarities between the Union of South Africa and the United States of America.
2.	The position of Africa and its natural resources make it strategic. Why?
3.	Compare South Africa with the rest of Africa as to ancient history, culture, etc.
4.	Why was Africa called “the sleeping giant”?
5.	Why may Africa become the testing ground for the principle of the Atlantic Charter?
There are many words in these descriptions of Africa with which you may not be familiar. Go over these definitions. It may make the reading easier, access alliance alluvial
antimony
arid
athwart augment auriferous bas relief
base metal bequeathed beryl
bilingual
bitumenized
%
burrow
alculated
rats
arcass
carnivora
cataracts
ceded
century
configuration
corundum
creosote
admittance, approach a treaty or agreement composed of earth deposited by water
a silver white metallic element related to arsenic and tin
dry, barren
from side to side, across to increase, enlarge containing gold sculpture where the figure extends a little from the background
foundation, nonprecious handed down
a chemical, some varieties used as gems 2 languages
changed, covered with asphalt
to dig into, under, through estimated
units of weight for diamonds
the frame of a body a mammal living on flesh waterfalls, floods of water transferred to, given up a period of 100 years structural arrangement hard, used as an abrasive antiseptic liquid
depict	picture, describe, represent
diverted	turned aside
drought	long continued dry weather
durability	long lasting
elusive	slip away, escape
embodiment	collected as a whole
eminently	prominently rising above others
enterprise	new undertaking, project
environs	surrounds, encloses
equestrian	pertaining to horses
erosion	wearing away of rock by water
escapades	pranks, things done for fun
exhilarating	stimulating, cheering
exotic	not native, foreign
exploited	used
fabulous	unbelievable
fezzed	capped
flanked	situated on the side
friezes	flat pictures or representations on walls
gait	manner of walking
geologists	those who know the science of the structure of the earth
hinterland	land behind seacoast or shore
indentation	a cut or notch in an edge, in a piece of land
indispensable	necessary, required
inedible	not fit to eat
infested	annoyed, haunted
ingots	mass of cast metal
inimical	unfriendly, hurtful
intact	complete
interpose	to place between, obstruct, interfere
irksome	troublesome, tiresome
majestically	kingly, grand
mangoes	edible fruit of a tropical tree
massive	large
mauve	purple color
multilingual	many languages
niche	hollow space
obstacle	stands in way, hindrance
penetrate	pierce, go into interior parts
perennial	continuing through the year, growing continually
persists	continues, endures
placid	smooth, calm
posterior	situated behind, later in time
potential	possible, not yet existing
privateers	pirates
prodigious	large, extraordinary, vast
promontory	high point of land extending
	into the sea
putrefy	decay, rot
reclamation	cultivation
rehabilitation	restored to former state
rural	country, rustic
safaris	African hunting expeditions
sanctuary	a sacred place
saplings	young trees
sarcophagus	a stone coffin, chest like tomb
scurvy	a disease sometimes caused by continued use of salt meats on ship board
segments	sections, parts of things
sorghum	cane like grass, molasses from its juice
subsidiary	auxiliary, assistant
suburbs	places near cities, outskirts of cities
surplus	more than is needed
sustained	supported, kept up
teak	large East Indian tree giving durable timber
unchartered	not hired, not part of an agreement
unique	only one of its kind, uncommon
unprocessed	not treated, natural
victualling	laying in sunnlies of food
vindicative	defend, justify
wane	decline gradually, decrease
wart hogs	African wild hogs
wildebeest	a gnu, a South African antelope
FOR ADD	TIONAL INFORMATION
Union of South Africa Consulate Generals	
Office	
655 Madison Avenue, New York City	
South African Tourist Corp.	
475 Fifth Avenue, New York City	
South African Government Information	
Office	
655 Madison Avenue, New York City	
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Contrary to general opinion there are many good books which will be most helpful in the study of the Union of South Africa. Some of them are listed here.
Gatti & Gatti—Here is Africa—Scribner Gatti—Here is the Veldt—Scribner Paton—Cry the Beloved Country—Scribner Juta—Look Out for Ostriches—Knopf Waldeck—Treks Across the Veldt— Viking
Sanderson—Animal Treasure—Viking Akeley & Akeley—Adventure in the African Jungle—Dodd Eaton—David Livingstone—Morrow Waldeck—Jamba the Elephant—Hale Berry—Girls in Africa—Macmillan Busoni—Stanley’s Africa—Viking Gatti—South of the Sahara—McBride Howard—Sokas and the Crocodile— Macmillan
Johnson—Over African Jungles— American News
Loring—African Adventure Stories— Scribner
Stinetorf—Children of South Africa— Lippincott
Waldeck—On Safari—Viking Coatsworth—White Horse—Macmillan Courlander & Herzog—Cow-tail Switch and Other Stories—Holt Davis—• Pepperfoot of Thursday—Market American News
Gatti—Wrat of Moto—American News Hoffman—Mischief in Fez—
American News Kelen—Yussuf the Ostrich—
American News Stevens—Lion Boy—Lippincott White—Dawn Battle—American News Gatti—Saranga, the Pygmy—Scribner Martin—Munya the Lion—American Book Carpenter—Children of the World— American Book
Barrows-Parker-Sorenson—Old World Lands—Silver Burdett Winslow—Distant Countries—Heath Smith—Foreign Lands and Peoples— Winston
Brighane & McFarlane—Essentials of Geography—American Book Hogue—Bob Clifton, Jungle Traveler— Holt
Quinn—Picture Map Geography of Africa —Lippincott
Stevens—Lion Boy’s White Brother— Doubleday
Ackeley—Lions, Gorillas & Their Neighbors—Dodd, Mead Halliburton—Second Book of Marvels— Bobbs-Merrill
Hogue—-Bob Clifton, Elephant Hunter— Doubleday
—Today’s Geography of the World— Merrill
—The Gold Coast—Pan American World Airways Teacher Nov.-Dee. 1950 Wright & Lossing—Song Source Material —Bureau of Publications, Teachers College
Benuzzi—No Picnic on Mount Kenya— Dutton
Britannica Junior—Kana, Prince of Darkest Africa
The Instructor—Unit #72-Africa Meyer-Hamer-Grasso—The Old World And Its Gifts—Follett Sorenson—Neighbors Across the Sea— Winston