Pan American
World Airways Teacher	5
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA
By Enrique Portes
At the southern tip of Africa lies the Union of South Africa. It comprises the provinces of Cape of Good Hope (Cape Province), Natal, Orange Free State, and Transvaal where Johannesburg is located. The Union is almost twice as large as Texas, with a population of about 12,000,000 (equal to the population of New York City and Chicago together).
Of the four provinces of the Union, only the Cape has a history which goes back three centuries. The other three are creations dating barely a century. It may seem strange that the southern tip of ancient Africa, a huge continent which in the north can boast the Pyramids and the Sphinx, would be slightly junior to the United States. But, as anyone who has flown across Africa will know, for thousands of square miles deserts and bush country interpose a barrier between north and south which no explorer was able to penetrate until the XIX century. So South Africa was in effect an island waiting, like America, for that moment when mariners should have enough means to face the elements and take their ships over the oceans.
South Africa emerged from the region of dreams and legend when the Portuguese, at the end of the XV century, seeking a sea
I route to India, rounded the Cape, which of-^ired a “good hope” of reaching India by "a.
European life had to wait many years before it was established in South Africa. It was only in 1652 that the Dutch East India Company built a fort at the Cape and planted a vegetable garden there in order to provide its merchantmen with fresh food. In those days a voyage to the Cape took six months and crews often arrived stricken with scurvy. The Cape’s contribution to the long and exhausting journey to India was fresh meat and vegetables. The site of the vegetable garden—now a fine botanical garden —is still the most pleasant attraction of Cape Town, and the statue of its founder, Jan van Riebeeck, gazing towards Table Mountain, is the first sight that greets the traveler. It is interesting to recall that twenty-five years before van Riebeeck landed at the Cape, the Dutch West India Company had founded a similar station, called then New Amsterdam, which grew into New York City.
As time went on the South African Dutch moved off into the veld or high pasture land to become farmers or “Boers”. The Bowery, which is an Anglicised form of “bouerie”, is not only a monument to their activities but also an interesting link between the cities of Capetown and New York, the origins of which can be traced to the Dutch trading companies of the XVII century.
1 The Union of South Africa is a land ^here great elemental natural forces have Wttn at work. In general, it is a great plateau, tilted up at its eastern end, so that the approach to it from the south or from the east is by a series of sharply-graded terraces to a mountain barrier, from beyond which it dips gradually to the western ocean. Its coastline consists very largely of cliffs
CAPETOWN — This view of one of the Union’s two capitals (Pretoria is the administrative capital, Capetown the legislative capital) is from Signal Hill, with Table Mountain in the background.
and sandhills, and its river-mouths are for the most part blocked by bars of sand. Its shores are somewhat dangerous. In natural harbours, it is for the length of its coastline rather deficient. The courses of nearly all the African rivers are interrupted by cataracts ; only a very few are navigable for more than 100 miles from the sea; none of those few are found in South Africa.
The configuration of the country has played a great part in South African history. Within the coastline a succession of mountain ranges constituted an obstacle for the access to the interior. That configuration made the early Dutch settlers turn their backs to the sea, and the adventurous spirit of the Dutch sailor, who had braved the unchartered seas, found a new embodiment in the pioneer for whom savage foes and wild beasts had no terrors. In that spirit, men forced their way up the mountain terraces from the south-western coastlands on to the interior plateau; and when they had reached it, the land again imposed itself upon their life and character.
Capetown
Capetown lies at the foot of Africa. It is one of the two capitals of the Union, and the country’s oldest city. On any map, it is a tiny indentation on the vast coastline of the continent. But looking at it more closely, you will notice just below it a finger of land pointing south to the Pole. At the tip of this promontory is the Cape of Good Hope. This is the promontory that makes Capetown more than a seaport. For it is here in this peninsula, with the Indian Ocean in the east and South Atlantic in the west,
where the South Africans find their holiday resorts.
The Cape is one of the most famous landmarks in the history of navigation. The Phoenicians rounded it some 200 years B.C. But it was the Portuguese, looking for a new route to the riches of the East Indies who first discovered it. Bartholomeu Diaz and Vasco da Gama called at the Cape in the XV century. Diaz encountered heavy weather off the Cape and he named it Cabo Tormentoso (Cape of Storms). It might have borne that awful name for all time had it not been for King John of Portugal, at whose behest Diaz had sailed. When Diaz reported his discovery to the King and showed him the roughly drawn chart, John saw at last the beginning of the fulfillment of his dream—the route to the East along which Portuguese ships might sail and return, laden with silver, spices and jewels. So the King crossed out the name Diaz had written on the chart and gave this new route in the south the beautiful name it bears to this day—Cabo Bono Esperansa, the Cape of Good Hope.
Ships of all nations called at the Cape in the Sixteenth and Seventeenth centuries, but all hurried on to the East, and in the end it was the Dutchman led by Jan van Riebeeck who settled there. The Dutch East India Company needed a suitable victualling port to provide water and fresh vegetables for the ships and a hospital for the men who were down with scurvy. So, in 1652 an expedition from Holland dropped anchor in Table Bay and the settlement known as “De Kaap” (the Cape) was founded. The com-