Pan America/v
World Alrmys Teacher

great variety and citrus fruit supplement an 11 year industry of extremely profitable Proportions. Sub-tropical fruits such as bananas, paw-paws, mangoes, avocado pears, melons and figs are grown but are not exported in any quantity. Allied to the fruit industry is the production of a fine range of wines and brandies.
Unprocessed wool was South Africa’s largest export to the United States during the year 1952, followed by precious and base metals and minerals, Persian lamb, sealskins, other hides and skins, wattle bark and wattle bark extract for dyeing and tanning purposes, and shell fish and products, notably canned lobster and frozen rock lobster tails. Gems and industrial diamonds accounted for over $14 million.
In the field of ores and metals South Africa’s heaviest exports to the United States were manganese, lead ores, copper and zinc bearing ores, platinum, chrome ore, beryl and antimony. Among non-metallic minerals asbestos was the Union’s biggest export to the United States followed by corundum ore. The United States takes comparatively little of South Africa’s large exports of spirits and wines but there is a growing demand for South African fresh fruits, notably grapes of which the country is also a large exporter.
Next to the United Kingdom, the United States holds an unchallenged place as the world’s largest supplier of the goods which South Africa imports. In recent years South /Yfrica has on occasion ranked as the world’s rgest importer of American textiles and ror part of one year it was the world’s largest buyer of American automobiles.
Progress and The Future
Scarcely more than a century ago, South Africa was an undeveloped and little known country, harborless and roadless, whose inland waters afforded no facilities for transport. Today its railways, harbors and airways, together with various subsidiary services, are a coordinated, efficient, national organization owned by the State and operated by the South African Railways and Harbours Administration. South African Airways link all main centers of the Union and South West Africa and adjacent territories. The South African Railways operate the longest 3 foot 6 inch gauge in the world. (It is narrow gauge—standard gauge being 4 feet 8)4 inches) Total route mileage is nearly fourteen thousand miles. Roads are for the most part good and main highways are bitumenized, especially in and around the major centers. The South African Railways operate an excellent motor coach or Railway Bus service to augment the railway system.
The Union is served by five major seaports, — Capetown, Durban, Port Elizabeth, East London and Mossel Bay. The ports, which are administered and controlled by the State-owned South African Railways measure up to the standard of modern world requirements. Durban is the site of a new finery of the Standard-Vacuum Refining ompany of South Africa. The company is affiliated with the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company of the United States and will produce 16,000 barrels per day. Per capita consumption of oil products in South Africa has nearly tripled in the past fifteen years, one of the largest percentage increases in
OUDTSHOORN -----The ostrich is a native of Africa and lives both in the wild
state and on ostrich farms like the one here illustrated.
any major area in the world. The refinery will bring to South Africa the saving of a substantial amount of foreign exchange in the purchase of oil products and the strengthening of the Union’s national security. The foreign exchange savings will be substantial.
The Union’s Trade
The Union of South Africa has a large and expanding two-way trade with many countries. Generally speaking, it imports more than it exports but maintains a stable economy due to its considerable gold resources. Growing exports of goods manufactured in the Union are strengthening the country’s economy and manufacturers are looking forward to a sustained improvement in their export prospects.
The Union is a heavy purchaser of American products. With one exception, in 1950, it has bought far more heavily from the United States than we have bought from the Union. In the six years since 1947 South African annual exports to the United States, excluding gold, have ranged from $109 million to approximately $140 million. The value of South African imports from the United States during the same period ranged from $125 million to $492 million. The peak figure was reached in 1948 as South Africa was re-stocking after the restrictions of the war years.
Over this period of six years South Africa exported to the United States approximately $742 million and imported to the value of roughly $1,757 million. Taking a typical year, 1952, the United States’ biggest exports to the Union were machinery and vehicles, including automobiles, textiles, wood and paper, non-metallic minerals, metals and manufactures, vegetable food products and beverages, chemicals and related products, and animal products.
South Africa occupies an exceptional place on the African Continent because of its population pattern. On the whole of the African Continent there are barely four million Europeans in a population estimated to be over 180 million. Of these four million Europeans, over 2)4 million are citizens of the Union of South Africa and with them, within the boundaries of the Union, live approximately 8)4 million Native Africans or Bantu, over a million persons of mixed descent and over 400,000 Asians and Malays. The bulk of the European population is comprised of people of Dutch and British descent.
The Union of South Africa and the United States of America have much more in common than a similarity of initials. The founding stocks of the two nations that had their origins in the Seventeenth Century were the same—Dutch, English, French and other Western European races. There are many other parallels in their historical development. In the wider field, two World Wars revealed what a vitally strategic value South Africa has for the United States. Lying athwart, in the Southern Hemisphere, the Atlantic and Indian Oceans, it dominates the all-important oceanways around the Cape of Good Hope, and the Union’s unseen and unsung part in keeping these waterways free from enemy submarines and other raiders is fully recognized by those who think in terms of global defense. Moreover, the last World War demonstrated that South Africa, well endowed with natural resources, highly developed industrially and pledged to participation in the defense of the free world, can make very material contributions to any free effort in the Middle East, not only in striking forces, even if small, but in a wide range of essential manufactures and repair services in the Union’s factories,