Pah Amerîcah
World Alrmyr Tfacllfr
7
first landing and the opening up of the southern part of Africa.
The site of Johannesburg, a little more than sixty-two years ago, was the last place anyone would have expected an El Dorado to be found. For ages there had been legends of gold and precious stones in a mysterious hinterland. But it was almost forbidden territory, far from civilization, where wild game roamed and only a few hardy pioneers farmed. From the Cape, civilization slowly crept North with the Voortrekkers. Diamonds were found at Kimberley. A fabulous “lake of gold” under the Rand was hinted by geologists. So the “diggings” began. The town of tents and ox-wagons grew into a great city, a melting pot of men, center and symbol of a new urban way of life.
The millions invested in gold-mining, pouring in from all over the world, have spread over into' many other industries. There are factories of all kinds, nearly half the manufacturing industry of the country being concentrated in the city and its environs. And there are those superb craftsmen, the diamond cutters, whom the visitor can see at work behind plate glass windows along the main thoroughfares, nonchalantly carving priceless gems.
When the Anglo-American Corporation decided to erect a new building, and to make it worthy of a great city, it acquired a high island site two blocks west of the Stock Exchange. The structure which arose stands oday as a monument not only to business 'enterprise but to art. The main entrance, flanked by massive, carved stone fountains set in pleasant green lawns, consists of seven huge bronze doors and a great window crested with South African flowers and decorated with antelope, storks and eagles. The whole building is rich in bas-reliefs, and sculptured friezes depict the teeming animal and bird life of Africa.
The swift-beating heart of Johannesburg is Eloff Street, with its fashionable stores, and Commissioner Street with its huge white business blocks and theaters. The Stock Exchange, Broadcast House, Escom House and others are Johannesburg’s greatest symbols of progress. But Johannesburg, the original and still the only City of Gold, continues its prodigious, headlong development.
The Kruger National Park
Kruger National Park is the largest game sanctuary in the world. Glamorous old Africa with its trading safaris, its slavers, ivory hunters, and adventurers, persists today only in scattered segments, and in memories. In the early days the Eastern Transvaal was the arena for all sorts of escapades. It was a wild garden where the hunter tracked fresh excitement every day. All this would have died and the elusive spirit of the wilderness been quite forgotten ^^khad not wise President Paul Kruger of ^^■Yansvaal conceived the idea of a sanctuary ^Ror the African wilderness and its unruly animal children. It was in 1884 that Kruger first considered the question of a reserve. Fourteen years later, 1898, the tangle of thorn trees so often traversed by the trading-safaris and the transport riders was finally declared a reserve.
KRUGER NATIONAL PARK — One must look closely at this picture to see the zebras. It is typical of the scenes in this huge game sanctuary, where the animals with protective coloration frequently are almost invisible against the background.
Today the Park is a wonderful attraction. You can drive through it in perfect safety. In 1927 the first three cars ventured into animal sand. The following year 180 came; in 1929 there were 850; in 1950 over 16,000 cars drove through the entrance gates.
What will you see during your drive? The alert little impalas, generally led by some old female wise in the ways of life and man. The clowns of the busveld, the wart hogs, who give so many smiles to visitors today. The wart hog makes his home in a burrow. The entry into the burrow is the most specialized problem for the hog. If he goes in head first then his plump, and to the carnivora, very agreeable posterior, is obviously and most dangerously exposed. To overcome this difficulty the wart hog has cunningly devised a special technique. Racing for the burrow he stops sharp at the entrance, does a smart about turn, and reverses in.
Another resident of the burrow is the less seldom seen but very numerous porcupine. Though one of the most heavily armored of all animals the porcupine is a placid soul, very conscious of the fact that his weakest spot is his head. Often sharing the porcupine’s burrow is the jackal who, with the hyena, has long been delegated by nature to the task of clearing up the debris left by the great carnivora, the fleet-footed cheetahs, fastest of animals, the daring and solitary leopards, and of course the lordly lions. The hippopotamus seems to lead an ideal life, always dozing away the sunny hours in some cool bushveld river. The hippo, you are told, is a curious animal. A human being to him is as odd an object as he presents to the human. His curiosity often stimulates him to adventurous treks across the country. The smartly tailored
zebra can also be seen in the Park. Nature often provides examples of alliance between animals. The wildebeest and the zebra are particularly good companions. The zebra is most alert by day while the wildebeest is only really bright at night. The two, therefore, have a joint round-the-clock alarm service most irksome to the lions.
The gawky giraffe with his thick skin and curious slow motion gait, and the tough, rugged buffalo, most vindictive of all African animals, are also there. The majority of watering places in the bushveld, including even the most tranquil pool, are infested with crocodiles. Somewhere in the depths a crocodile may be sleeping off a feast or waiting for the carcass of his victim, stored in some ledge or underground cavern, to putrify. The crocodile, despite his razor teeth, chews and swallows with difficulty. Soft meat is thus his choice, and even then swallowing is so great an effort that his eyes bulge out and shed the crocodile tears.
The Kruger National Park offers you the world’s greatest adventures. To see lions at close quarters in their natural bushveld setting, elephants as your engine keeps running; the lioness treating you and others with dignified contempt; the baboon laughing at you. In fact, the animals accept the cars as being inedible and harmless. Sensing that man in a car would do them no harm they have lost all fear and instead learned to view the traffic with a curious fascination.
You will be told that there is nothing more beautiful than a bushveld dawn and nothing more exhilarating than an early rise. The unfolding drama of light and life and color is something that you will have to experience for yourself in the famous Park in the Transvaal.