BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
IRELAND
Page 9
EIRE
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Eire called the land
of “half magic, half music”?
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	Stories of Ireland have always held a fascination for children.
2.	The struggle to form a republic compares with the struggle for freedom in the United States.
3.	So many well known authors and musicians came from Ireland.
4.	The ancestors of many students in the class may have come from Ireland.
5.	There are always items of interest in the news which arouse a desire to know more about this country.
6.	Air travel has brought Ireland so close to our shores that many more people are visiting there.
7.	There is so much of Irish culture in the United States that we would like to know more of the land of its origin.
8.	Study of John Barry, American Naval hero, might lead to a further interest in his birthplace.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Story of a flight to Shannon. What else can we visit in Eire?
2.	Many of George Bernard Shaw’s plays are being performed in various places. A discussion of the author’s life could lead to finding out more about Eire.
3.	News stories about Eire’s stand in recent events.
4.	Use Irish music and dances to arouse an interest in Eire.
5.	A report on one of the books listed in the bibliography is a good way to start.
6.	Use of audio-visual aids listed in this issue will also make a good approach.
7.	Productions of the Abbey Theater Group could also be used as an introduction.
8.	A discussion of the origin of St. Patrick’s Day would also make an interesting beginning.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why has this country always been referred to as the “Emerald Isle”?
2.	Who are the past and present leaders of the Irish republic?
3.	What have the citizens of Irish descent contributed to the growth of the United States?
4.	What is Eire’s political and economic position in the world of today?
5.	What great music and literature have come to us from Eire?
6.	What are the trade problems confronting Eire today?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies: location; famous lakes and rivers such as Killarney and Shannon; Dublin, the capital; cities, Shannon, Bray, Cork, Cobb, Galway, Limerick; “Finian’s Country”; wonderful climate; Donegal and Galway Bays; famous people, O’Connell, De Valera; St. Patrick’s Day; how Eire became a republic; four provinces; government, president and two houses; population, about 3,000,000; fertile soil; cattle and horse raising; fuel from bogs called peat; fishing; agriculture, most important industry; textiles; Ireland’s many trade treaties; expansion of the tourist industry; transportation by roads, railways and canals; Irish constitution, one of the most advanced; Blarney Castle; 12 hours flying time from New York; 5 hours difference in time; Gaelic language; O'Connell Bridge; Trinity College; famous birthplaces.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue will help you to understand the reading matter.
b.	Literature—(there is a wealth of material to choose from) Shelley, Shaw, Joyce, George Moore, Thomas Moore, Swift, Sheridan, Goldsmith, Steele, Burke, Yeats, Colum, O’Casey, are only some of the “greats” who were born in Ireland; Irish legends and folklore; the Abbey Players and some
of Shaw’s works are familiar to students because many of them have attended performances in various cities in the United States.
c.	Oral Communication: Asking questions of one who lived in Ire-
land or has visited there; discussing the separation from England; reviewing the work of De Valera for Eire; sharing a story .or legend of Ireland; answering questions; reporting to the class,
d.	Written Communication: Planning a sightseeing trip to Eire; writing reports from information gathered; gathering more information; inviting speakers; reviewing a play, a book, or a piece of music.
3.	Science: Climate; why it is “Green Ireland”; Saltee Island bird sanctuary; peat bogs; limestone plain; cloud formations; mist.
4.	Art: National Museum of Irish Antiques; National Gallery; O’Connor, sculptor; Barry, Orphen, Hones, Irish painters; Municipal Gallery of Modern Art; Phoenix Park, official residence of the President; tallest obelisk in the world.
5.	Music: Dublin’s famous Music Hall; Royal Irish Academy of Music; Trinity College Choral Society; Music festivals (Feis Ceoil); Palestrina Choir; John McCormack and other well known singers; Irish songs may be found in all school song books; concerts by Eireann Symphony orchestra.
6.	Mathematics: Monetary units, pound and shillings; differences in time; differences in voyage time by sea and by air; graphs showing exports and imports as well as distribution of sales to various markets of the world.
7.	Health: Irish jigs and folk dances; sports such as horse racing, the Irish Sweepstakes; greyhound racing, hockey, cricket, soccer, Gaelic football, hurling, polo, golf, cycling; wholesome food, Ireland is rated as one of
Photo from Irish Tourist Bureau DUBLIN AIRPORT—The capital is served by this airport at Collinstown in north County Dublin—about 5V2 miles from the center of the city of Dublin. Connecting services take the air passenger to the international airport at Shannon.