World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 6
and who inspired Tom Moore’s She is Far From the Land and Washington Irving’s Broken Heart. The people of Cork are said to have the sunniest disposition in Ireland; the expression “He’s a corker!” stems from the extra charm of this community — and must be so.
A few miles from Cork is the most widely publicized of all Irish sights, Blarney Castle. Blarney Castle is a real ruin set in a green and undramatic demesne. Perhaps you have heard too much about it and so are disappointed; but there is no denying that it is fun to go there and more fun to go in your car.
The famed Stone, which confers eloquence and is the object of your visit, remains embedded in the battlement of an upper tower. To kiss the stone you must climb narrow, dark, winding staii's which reveal to you something of what living in a real castle was like, past slit-like windows and unexpected openings looking out on a rich rolling green country with ancient trees. As you climb you will hear shrieks, squeals, and loud laughter from above.
On top, you walk around the battlement, seat yourself on a stone, clutch some iron bars the lord of the demesne has placed here to protect you, allow your ankles to be clutched by a pair of his retainers, lean over backward, and kiss the slab. Great is your feeling of achievement when you are again upright, and your subsequent immediate conversation with perfect strangers will be marked with great eloquence. Thus did a new word come to be adopted by the English language — “blarney” — meaning pleasing, soft, cajoling speech; flattery.
After Blarney Castle, the Lakes of Killar-ney are the most publicized tourist highlight in Ireland. The three lakes are in reality one long, irregular lake cut in three by projecting necks of land. The whole is ringed round by apparently barren but not wildly contorted mountains. Upon them falls a continual play of light and shadow shot through here and there by fragments of the rainbows which are the usual thing of the Irish landscape.
Nothing about it is rugged or terrifying, as the monstrous giants, of limestone and granite on the continent of Europe or in the New World are terrifying. All here is rounded, gentle, softly blurred by the vagueness of the atmosphere. Maybe it is the most characteristic view in Ireland, for it is the landscape of a dream, part of the Celtic twilight, and standing here you become, like Gogarty, sensitive to “the soul that haunts the Celtic lands.”
Then you have the main religious shrines of modern Ireland with those historic centers which are essential to an understanding of Irish religious sentiment. Glendaloch is one of them. The Cisterian Monastery is another. It was founded in 1158 and it is today the country’s most impressive monastic ruin.
Kilkenny is the perfect example of an Irish medieval town. Cong is where Ireland’s most priceless relic, the Cross of Cong (now at the National Museum in Dublin) was found. Westport is the center for the celebrated pilgrimage to Croagh Patrick (an isolated mountain of 2,510 ft. on the shore of Clew Bay) on Garland Sun--
day, the last Sunday in July. Tradition has it that St. Patrick fasted for forty days on the summit.
Knock, one of the most noted centers of present-day pilgrimage, has become the Irish Lourdes due to apparitions seen toward the end of the last century. Armagh is the city of St. Patrick, with its two Cathedrals. Downpatrick is the reputed burial place of the Saint in the Cathedral churchyard. Saul was Patrick’s landing place in 432.
To Ireland One Always Returns
When you leave Ireland you feel as if you had lived there all the time. As the days go by you begin to clarify your thoughts about the little country. There are a thou-
People in the United States, even those who have never visited the Republic, usually regard Ireland as a familiar friend, Irish songs and fables and even St. Patrick’s Day have become almost a part of American life. The “fun” side of Irish life is well known. The “work” side, the Republic’s economy, its industrialization, its problems and its serious goals are not less well understood.
The Republic of Ireland (Poblacht Na H’Eireann) occupies most of a small island in the Atlantic Ocean near the European mainland, separated from Great Britain on the east by the Irish Sea and the North Channel and on the southeast by St. George’s Channel. A small nation, the “Emerald Isle” is about 32,000 square miles in area. Its greatest length is 302 miles; its greatest width 189 miles. No part of the country is more than seventy miles from the sea.
sand items to classify. Is it Dublin what stands out most? Is it the lovely countryside, the small towns and blue lakes? Is it the soft summer climate that makes you feel so soft? The Irish will tell you that the climate and the soil produce the best horses in the world — thoroughbred, racer, pony, light draughthorse, and hunter — and incidentally, they add with a smile — men, too.
But the thing one remembers most is that gentle peace in simple surroundings with a friendly people. For centuries they have lived by the proverb “It is in the shelter of one another that the Irish live”— and they are always happiest when they are sharing it with you. That is why one always returns to Ireland.
The nation is divided into four provinces, which in turn, are further sub-divided into counties. The Province of Ulster in the north has nine counties; Munster in the south has six counties. The Province of Leinster in the east has twelve counties; while Connacht in the west has five counties. Six of the nine counties in Ulster, in the northeast corner of the land, constitute “Northern Ireland.” They are not part of the Republic; their Parliament in Belfast is subordinate to the British Parliament.
The population of Ireland, exclusive of the six northeastern counties, is about three million persons. It has remained steady at that level since 1926, although the number of births exceed the number of deaths by about 25,000 a year. Emigration has absorbed this natural increase each year and has prevented any substantial increase in population. More industries are needed to check this emigration through the provision
Photo from Irish Tourist Bureau
DUBLIN HORSE SHOW—Held each year early in August, the Dublin Horse Show so regularly has good weather that the phrase "Horse Show weather" is part of the language in Dublin. A variety of competitions, including spectacular jumping events, are held each year.
Ireland—Serious As Well As Fun-Loving
By Lou A. Phillips