BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
_____________IRELAND______________________Page 3
Ireland-The Emerald Isle
By Enrique Portes
Emerald Isle is a good name for Ireland. Its fields are so green that one may imagine he’s wearing a pair of tinted glasses.
Ireland’s countryside is as beautiful as its songs and legends claim. The Irish never stop eulogizing tlreir homeland. Poets and writers always place their island in the skies. O Ireland, isn’t it grand you look Like a bride in her rich adornin’?
And with all the pent-up love of my heart I bid you the top o’ the mornin’.
Thus wrote John Locke a hundred years ago. And Helen Sheridan was no less nostalgic when she expressed the “Lament of an Irish Emigrant”:
“They say there’s bread and work for all And the sun shines always there.
But I’ll not forget old Ireland Were it fifty times as fair.
Ireland — they say — is a country to relax. It invites you to enjoy the beautiful foolishness of things, the fantastic land of leprechauns, shillelaghs, shamrocks and mists. If you insist upon the truth you’ll be told, of course, with a smile that the only leprechauns and shillelaghs are those in the souvenir shop windows. As for shamrocks — they only bloom on St. Patrick’s Day (March 17th) or around the borders of Irish linen handkerchiefs and table cloths. And the mists? — they can envelope the entire country in a matter of seconds.
However, if you want a gentle place in placid surroundings with a people so warm that you’ll be soon calling them John and Peter, go to this friendly land. Ireland is a day nearer the United States than the rest of Europe by sea and about four hours nearer by air, the actual flying time from New York to Shannon airport being ten hours.
When you come into Shannon you will have a sudden appreciation of why even the Greeks, who never ventured beyond the Pillars of Hercules, knew of Ireland’s fertile greenness. You see its verdure more dramatically from the air. All the other land over which you may have ever flown or will ever fly pales by comparison.
One must know a bit of Irish history to understand this green island and its charming, friendly, witty and stubborn people. A little knowledge of Irish history not only provides the key to the understanding of the country, it also provides the key to Irish hearts.
St. Patrick drove out the snakes around 432 A.D., so the legend says, and history records his work as a missionary. Thereafter Christianity spread, and before the sixth century Ireland had become a well-known center of Latin learning.
The Anglo-Norman invasion of 1170 was the beginning of centuries of strife between the native inhabitants and the invaders. The defeat of the Irish at Kinsale in 1602 was followed by ruthless confiscations, Cromwell’s terrible campaign crushed the Irish hopes in the Willamite wars. During the 18th century, the Irish Catholics, the
majority of the people, were deprived of all legal rights, and in 1798 their local Parliament, organized just 15 years earlier, was abolished completely. Now, opposition against English rule began in earnest. Catholic emancipation, secured by Daniel O’Connell in 1829, brought new hope. But in 1845 the tragic famine began. Thousands of O’Connells, O’Sullivans, Donavans, McCormacks and McQuades packed their bundles and set out across the great ocean for the shores of America.
It was the rise of the Sinn Fein movement in the last century which led to the formation of the Irish Volunteers in 1913. In 1916, at the height of World War I, open rebellion against England broke out. The great war ended, but civil war continued in Ireland until an independent republic was established. It is a great story of war, rebellion, executions, sufferings, religious fervor, undying hope. One can read all about it in a hundred books, plays, poems. The past few decades have brought many changes in the Irish scene, and not the least welcome of them has been the opening up of great demesne gates to ordinary man. All over the Irish countryside of today the turreted walls have lost their former sinister meaning, and many of the broad acres, winding avenues, game preserves and green well-kept lawns which once served to fan the flames of revolt and class strife are now being used to promote good will through the medium of tourist trade.
Some of the great castles — especially in the west of Ireland — are no longer the exclusive playground of wealthy nobility — Ashford Castle in Cong, County Mayo and Ballinahinch Castle, Connemara are there for you to see. They retain the trappings of great castles but now serve the visitor as
first class, yet inexpensive hotels.
Ireland is today a most peaceful country. Its hills and mountains and languorous mist make you slow down, relax and forget your troubles. There is romance in the fields and in the air — and tears as well as smiles. Even if you are the most difficult person, you will learn quickly — at once — that in Ireland “When Irish Eyes are Smiling” is more than a song title, for people smile at you and make you smile too.
The State Government
The twenty-six counties of Ireland — excluding the six counties of Northern Ireland — are governed by the Dail Eireann, a bicameral legislature whose two chambers are the Dail Eireann, or Lower, and the Sea-nad Eireann, or Upper, Houses. All legislation originates in the Dail, passes to the Seanan, and becomes law when it is signed by the President. There are 147 members of the Dail, called Deputies (T.D.’s), elected by popular vote. Government is parliamentary. The leaders of the Government are the Prime Minister (An Taoiseach) and the Deputy Prime Minister (An Tanaiste).
The Seanad Eireann consists of 60 Senators, of whom 11 are nominated by the Prime Minister. There are six members representing the two Universities, and the remainder are Panel Members, elected by representative bodies of the cultural, educational, agricultural, labor, industrial, commercial and administrative units of the community.
Elections are all by secret ballot, suffrage being universal for all over twenty-one years of age, based on the system of proportional representation. Deputies hold office for five years. Senators are elected usually for the same period. In addition to these two Houses, there is a Council of
Photo from Irish Tourist Bureau
ROCK OF CASHEL—A remarkable outcrop of limestone, rising 100 feet from the plain north of the town of Cashel is the site of historic ruins which once comprised the seat of the Munster kings. St. Patrick visited Cashel in A.D. 450 and baptised King Aengus and his brothers.