World A/rmve Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 12
HILLS OF IRELAND —59 min. sd. color. World Travel Films, Box 1561, Wyne-wood, Pa.
Pictures the country and people of Ireland. Shows the cities of North and South Ireland, the Dublin Horse Show, the Killar-ney Lakes and Kissing the Blarney Stone. Songs by Christopher Lynch.
COME BACK TO ERIN -10 min. sd. b & w —James A. Fitzpatrick’s Travel Pictures, 8624 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 46, California.
Produced and narrated by James A. Fitzpatrick. Shows scenes of rural life in Ireland, accompanied by singing of world-famous Irish songs.
THE SHARK KILLERS - 15 min. sd. b 8c w — McGraw-Hill Textfilm, 330 West 42nd St., New York City.
Produced by R.K.O. Portrays how fishermen on the Irish coast hunt and catch sharks which can be sold for their meat and oil. The sharks weigh up to three tons and move very fast. Show how some sharks are captured by dynamiting.
Available from IRISH TOURIST IN-
FORMATION BUREAU, 33	East 50th St.,
New York 22, N. Y.	
“IRELAND-LAND OF WELCOME”	
sound colour	25 minutes
“IRELAND AT HOME”	
sound colour	22 minutes
“IRELAND INVITES YOU”	
sound colour	22 minutes
“WINGS TO IRELAND”	
sound colour	30 minutes
“IRISH HOLIDAY”	
sound colour	30 minutes
“AN TOSTAL 1953”	
sound black 8c white	22 minutes
“KILLARNEY”	
sound colour	10 minutes
“DUBLIN, IRELAND’S CAPITAL”	
silent colour	10 minutes
“CONNEMARA, IRE LAN	D’S GOLDEN
WEST”	
silent colour	10 minutes
“JOURNEY INTO SLIGO”	
silent colour	10 minutes
(.Although these films are planned as travelogues, the classroom teacher will undoubtedly find many scenes and sequences to highlight the teaching of this topic in the classroom.)
Filmstrips
HOMESPUN HOLIDAY-47 frames, si. with captions, color. Young America, 12 East 41st St., New York City.
One of the “Children of Europe” series, shows contemporary life in Ireland. It portrays the story of a Dublin girl who wins a Gaelic-speaking contest and is awarded a trip to the coast of Western Ireland.
IRISH CHILDREN-81 frames, si. with captions, b 8c w — Encyclopedia Britan-nica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Presents the everyday life, customs and traditions. Portrays farm life in County Clare, western Ireland and the Irish countryside. Shows how Irish families dig peat from a peat bog.
IRELAND, THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE — 36 frames, si. with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, 1345 West Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Shows customs, activities and interests of people as well as architecture, characteristic landscapes and industries. Maps show location of cities, physical features and comparison with other countries.
IRELAND—41 frames, silent, color. Herbert E. Budek Co. Inc., P.O. Box 416-a, Hackensack, New Jersey.
Produced by the American Geographical Society, New York. Depicts the barren mountains in Donegal, the tropical palms in Kerry, rocky coasts and sheltered inlets. There are contrasting scenes of the ancient towers and modern churches, of farm life in Connemara and city life in Dublin.
Records
Irish Popular Dances (FP 818).
Irish Jigs, Reels 8c Hornpipes (FP 818/2)
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St., New York City. 33-1 /3 rpm longplay records.
Authentic and recorded for the most part in Eire.
The albums are accompanied by detailed background notes which include dance instructions. The jigs, reels and hornpipes played in every village and city of Ireland and the “lilting” to the accompaniment of fiddles, pipes (Uileann), whistles, flutes, etc. are all great fun to hear and to dance to.
Irish Songs of Resistance (The Great Rebellion) (FP 3002).
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St., New York City. 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
The famous songs of the Irish Rebellion with documentation, recorded most impressively, express the true heart of the Irish people.
Folksongs of Aran (P 1002)
Folksongs of Aran (P 1002).
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St., New York City. 33-1 /3 rpm longplay records.
Recorded on the Isle of Aran by Sidney Robertson Cowell this album presents superb examples of the music of these people who sing mainly in Gaelic. The album is accompanied by detailed background notes including Gaelic script. The Folksongs of Aran makes available for the first time the music of these people who were pictorialized so beautifully in the documentary motion picture, and the album presents a rare opportunity to hear the Gaelic language as it is spoken.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
LOCATION . . . The Republic of Ireland is situated to the west of the British Isles. The six northeastern counties of the island which form Northern Ireland are covered under England and Wales.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Ireland, with its castles, lakes, greenness, and soft-voiced people will delight you. Dublin is a charming city, full of interesting things to see. And who can resist the thought of seeing County Mayo, County Clare, the lakes of Killarney and the River Shannon? The people are hospitable, the food good. It’s a perfect place for a quiet vacation with some good fishing and fine motoring.
POPULATION . . . The total population of the island is 4,311,000. a few thousand greater than the populations of Philadelphia and Los Angeles combined.
SIZE . . . 32,585 square miles, about the size of Maine. It is said that no part of Ireland is more than 60 miles from the sea.
CAPITAL . . . Dublin is the capital with a population of 522,183; it is almost as large as Indianapolis.
GOVERNMENT . . . The southern twenty-six counties of the island have an independent, republican type of government.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Clipper, through-plane service to Shannon, about 12 hours from New York or Boston, 13 hours from Chicago via Detroit. Shuttle service from Shannon airport to Dublin. By ship, about 5 days.
The information presented above is from the PAA travel guide book “New Horizons,” now available in a fully revised new edition, with hard cover, published for PAA at $1.00 by Simon and Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82 countries in its 376 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar, to Dept. NH-E, P.O. Box 1 111, New York 17, N. Y.