Page T-4
Pan American
World Airway? Teacher
"SEE IT NOW" AS A TOOL FOR TEACHING
When Edward R. Murrow presented Danny Kaye in his seven-week UNICEF tour on “See It Now” over the CBS television network, the National Education Association issued a classroom discussion guide which was promptly requested and put into use by 50,000 teachers.
There is a tentative plan for discussion guides on some of the future “See It Now” broadcasts. The 1957 series will consist of nine programs all of which will be sponsored by Pan American World Airways. Through June, 1957, the show will appear on the first Sunday of each month, 5 to 6:30 p.m., E.S.T.
“See It Now” started as a weekly half-hour show, but shifted to hour shows (and sometimes 90 minutes) last season so that it could treat more subjects in greater depth. The program is kept attuned to world news developments. At a given time Mr. Murrow and Producer Fred W. Friendly may have half a dozen subjects in various stages of preparation, but scheduling of broadcasts is completely flexible, for greatest possible timeliness of the broadcasts. Thus, a treatment of de-segregation of schools in Clinton, Tenn., was presented in January, not long after sixteen agitators had been arrested for interfering with the town’s de-segregation program.
Among memorable shows in the “See It Now” series have been the one on Dr. Salk and the development of the polio vaccine, the interviews with Louis Armstrong, Ralphe Bunche and Carl Sandburg, the show on the U. S. vice presidency, the two-part report on Africa, the interviews with world-renowned physicist Robert Oppenheimer.
The Danny Kaye show, which initiated PAA sponsorship, was a presentation “in the spirit of the United Nations.”
There are 900 million children in the world, and about two-thirds of them are under-nourished and inadequately clothed. To find them and talk to them, Kaye traveled via PAA as Ambassador at Large for the United Nations Children’s Fund — UNICEF. Joking, singing, dancing he traveled 50,000 miles into eleven countries, and communicated with those whose languages he did not speak in the universal language of the clown. An example of the success with which he “got through” to the youngsters may be seen in the picture at the upper right, taken at a polio clinic in Italy.
For 1957, the topics already listed and in preparation include Burma, automation, geriatrics and air traffic.
Availability of discussion guides will be announced on the program. If there is to be a guide for the succeeding program, a month hence, the topic will be announced, and instructions given for mailing requests for the classroom discussion guide to the National Education Association.
Jet plane catapulted from the deck of the super-carrier Forrestal in "Revolution in the Navy," November 1956.
The Secret Life of Danny Kaye.
AVIATION EDUCATION IN PUERTO RICO
('Continued from page T-l)
ing to impart knowledge needed by an air-minded citizen.
Specifically, the program as outlined in CAP Regulation 30-1, includes:
a.	Social, political, economical, international and vocational facets of aviation, as well as an introduction to such aviation subjects as meteorology, theory of flight, navigation, aircraft engines, for the purposes of developing an air-minded citizenry.
b.	Training in citizenship, character guidance and development, leadership and exercise of command through self-government in the cadet organization and participation in cadet activities.
c.	An opportunity for aviation and related career exploratory activities.
d.	Participation in a variety of CAP cadet aviation and social experiences, including flight orientation and, where ap-
propriate, senior activities for the enrichment of the individual cadet’s experience.
e.	Familiarization with the Civil Air Patrol and the United States Air Force — their objectives, organization and inter-relationship.
The foregoing outline covers the coordinated high school program available throughout the United States, and used in individual schools, and school systems on the mainland.
In Puerto Rico the program is on a Commonwealth-wide basis. Overall jurisdiction is exercised by the Department of Education Teachers are appointed and paid by the Secretary of Education, but the Civil Air Patrol assists in their selection, and they are encouraged to become members of Civil Air Patrol. A standard prerequisite for appointment is that the teacher must have completed the Aviation Workshop offered at the University of Puerto Rico. Scholarships are available from CAP to enable teachers to attend this work shop.
The text for the coordinated course is the
aviation education booklet series (six pocket size books) prepared by the CAP especially for the coordinated program, and which is keyed to a series of 35 mm. color and sound film strips, and to teachers’ guides, discussion and activity outlines, and tests.
For students looking toward careers in aviation there are opportunities for specialized training, typical of which is the aviation mechanic course at the Metropolitan Vocational School at Rio Piedras.
The Advisory Committee visited this huge high school, which offers courses in twenty-five different vocations, and found that the course in aircraft and engine mechanics is one of its most popular offerings.
The aviation mechanics course was started in 1953, and gained by approval by the Civil Aeronautics Administration in 1954. Already it has graduates employed by the air lines operating to and from Puerto Rico, the Air National Guard, and aircraft factories in the United States, and many others now are enlisted airmen, serving as mechanics, in the U. S. Air Force.