Pan Æmerícan
World Airways Teacher

February, 1957	Published by Pan American World Airways	VOL. XIII No. 3
AVIATION EDUCATION IN PUERTO RICO
By George Gardner
The schools of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico have a program of aviation education which is equal to any which may be found in continental United States, and probably excels most such programs.
Since the study of aviation as sponsored by the Department of Education is carried out with notable support and cooperation by the Puerto Rico Wing of the Civil Air Patrol, and to a great extent consists of instruction of C. A. P. cadets along with high school students other than C. A. P. cadets, in the Coordinated High School Program on Aviation Education, General Walter R. Agee, Commander, Civil Air Pa-
trol arranged for an inspection and factfinding visit, in November, by members of his National Aviation Education Advisory Committee.
A Civil Air Patrol airlift transported many of the committee members to San Juan, and others traveled by air line. Twelve of the sixteen members of the committee made the trip, and were joined in Puerto Rico by Dr. Dawson C. McDowell of the University of Puerto Rico, who also is a member.
A number of top officers of the Southeastern Region of Civil Air Patrol also participated, as did also Dr. Mervin K. Strickler
Jr., Director of Aviation Education for C. A. P., and the aviation educationists from all the C. A. P. regions.
In a briefing at the Department of Education in San Juan, and through visits at schools throughout the island, the advisory committee became acquainted with a school system which has the same problems of teacher shortages and overcrowding of classrooms that exist in the United States, but with an enthusiasm for solving these problems which has moved Puerto Ricans to devote approximately half of their national budget to education.
Revelatory of the attitude of Puerto Rican students was the answer of a school authority to a question about compulsory attendance. It wasn’t a matter in his own field, and he had difficulty recalling the age through which Puerto Rican children are required to attend. His inability to produce a ready answer, he explained, was due to the fact that deliberate absence is practically no problem at all —that the Puerto Rican students are so eager for education that they take advantage of every opportunity offered.
Interest in continental United States, and their relationship with it, is evidenced by the fact that English is a required subject of study from the first grade through the eleventh, and may be continued as an elective in the twelfth grade.
Basic instruction in aviation in high school is based upon the Civil Air Patrol Coordinated High School Program, offered in twenty-four cities.
The coordinated program fosters the teaching of a general aviation course. It is not a technical program, nor does it deal with specialized branches. Rather, it is a general education course covering fundamental principles of aviation, and endeavor-(Continued on page T-4)
SAN JUAN—Members of the National Advisory Committee on Aviation Education visit Metropolitan Vocational School, largest in all Latin America. It provides courses in aviation mechanics, the only CAA approved curriculum outside continental United States. Left to right: Nemesio Oliveras, Instructor at the San Juan Metropolitan Vocational School; Dr. Roland H. Spaulding, Professor of Aeronautical Education, New York University; Roberto Montes, instructor at San Juan Metropolitan Vocational School; George Gardner, Educational Director, Pan American World Airways; Victor E. Moore, Regional Director of Aviation Education for the Northeastern Region; Jordan L. Larson, Superintendent of Schools, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; Ray O. Mertes, Director of School and College Services, United Air Lines, and John L. Goodwin, Associate Professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.
\727H Accj, 6oc ‘57, Fo lckr-7^0