of more employment at home. Since the foundation of the State the standard of living has risen steadily and is still rising. The present national income, for example, is approximately one fifth more than in 1938. What the Irish people want to do in the future and the tools at their command to accomplish these objectives can be better understood by a look at the nation’s resources and economy.
The island of Eire is formed of a central limestone plain, surrounded by rather a hilly rim giving the country somewhat the conformation of a saucer. A belt of coastal highlands almost completely encloses an undulating plain of limestone which is covered by a rich glacial deposit of boulder clay. This combination of rich soil and limestone makes this central plain very fertile and it is a famous cattle and horse-raising area. The clay also prevents water from draining away causing large tracts of bogs and numerous lakes. These are valuable as the bogs yield turf for fuel and electric power and the lakes have made Ireland a fisherman’s paradise.
In the highland belt particularly along the Atlantic Seaboard, the traditional life of Ireland is most strongly adhered to and a large proportion of the people are Gaelicspeaking. As the soil is poor and thin, the people can only till the lower mountain slopes and raise sheep on the remainder. Most of the small coastal communities engage in inshore fishing. Home industries such as spinning and weaving are also carried on.
The natural wealth of the nation lies principally in the fertile soil of its central plain where well distributed rainfall gives good yields of crops. The principal industry of the land is agriculture which provides a living for over half a million workers,— 40% of the total working population. Most of these people are farm owners or members of farm-owning families. Almost one-third of the national income is derived from agriculture. Crops produced are wheat, oats, barley, rye, potatoes, turnips, mangels, sugar beets, cabbage, flax and hay. A land rehabilitation project was introduced in 1949 to reclaim four million acres of under-productive land. A Turf Board is in action to drain the bogs which cover one-seventh of the country’s surface, utilize the fuel which is used domestically and cultivate the land.
Mineral resources are small. The principal mineral deposits are large gypsum/an-hydrite deposits and substantial deposits of copper, lead and zinc ores and of pyrites which have recently been proved by a State-sponsored mineral development body. Coal fields are not extensive. The main indigenous fuel is peat which occurs widely. Forest areas are small but a program of reforestation has made good progress in recent years. Imported oil is freely available.
Industry provides employment for almost one-fifth of the working population and produces one-quarter of the national income, a considerable improvement on the position when the State was founded. Gross industrial output, that is, the total selling value of goods produced, increased roughly six times. Volume of production has trebled during the period while employment more
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
IRELAND
than doubled. Almost every branch of industry has been expanded by the erection of new factories and the enlargement of existing ones.
For example, the food manufacturing industries have expanded until they are capable of meeting the full demands of the home market. The clothing and footwear industries have increased their output until they can now cater for the entire market as well as exporting to other countries. The manufacture of textiles has also increased. The output of the woolen industry has more than quadrupled while an entirely new cotton spinning and weaving industry has been built up. Other industries developed include flour milling, leather, engineering, soap, oils and fats, pottery, glass, cutlery, paper, tobacco, cement, cordage, car assembly, electrical equipment, paint, furniture and building.
An important part in the industrialization of Ireland is its technical education program, carried on by a network of vocational schools throughout the country. There are over 220 permanent schools and over 600 non-permanent centers which between them have almost 90,000 students. These schools are found in every county. Acting under the general guidance of the central Department of Education, they are managed by specially constituted local committees which include representatives of both employers and workers and maintain close contact with organizations of employers and workers and other interested voluntary bodies.
The vocational schools provide day courses and evening courses. The subjects include woodworking, metal-working and various other industrial crafts, commercial subjects and also general educational subjects. In certain employments special arrangements have been made, by agreement with the employers and trade unions concerned, for the technical training of apprentices. The local committees are always ready to make special arrangements to assist in the training of workers for any new industrial undertaking established in their areas. Special courses for foremen and supervisors have been arranged in Dublin and Cork in agreement with the Irish Management Institute.
Developments in industrialization have been achieved in the main by private enterprise. However, private concerns which took part in the industrial drive were encouraged and assisted by the Government. Newly established industries were protected from outside competition. Government assistance has been made available to industrialists wishing to set up factories in the form of general advice on conditions, market prospects, loan guarantees at interest rates below commercial rates and one-third less local taxation on factories for seven years to name only a few inducements. Industrial expansion could not have been accomplished without a corresponding advance in power production. The Electricity Supply Board, a statutory corporation set up in 1929, has increased annual production of electricity from 61 million units to 1,300 million units. Further increases in generating capacity will be more than adequate to
Page 7
supply new industries.
Notwithstanding the development already accomplished there are still substantial imports of many kinds of manufactured goods. These imports cover a very wide range, including manufactured foodstuffs, iron and steel and nonferrous products, hardware and implements, machinery, textile manufactures (principally piece-goods of cotton and synthetic materials), paper and cardboard, chemicals and dyestuffs, as well as various other articles. These imports show clearly that there is still much scope for further industrial development in the nation.
The people of Ireland feel however, that there is a greater scope for further development than is shown by their imports of manufactured goods. Geographically, Ireland is ideally situated for exporting to Great Britain, to Europe and to America. It can also offer substantial reserves of labor as well as the other facilities necessary for the establishment of an exporting industry. Therefore they feel that favorable opportunities exist for the establishment of factories to supply export markets in those countries to which Irish goods have easy access. The Irish Government has given special encouragement and assistance to industries intended to supply export markets,— the dollar market in particular.
Early in 1950, the Government asked a number of leading businessmen and officials to come together and consider Ireland’s possibilities in the dollar market, which was clearly becoming vital to the country’s economy. The Dollar Exports Advisory Committee, as it was called, investigated the prospects thoroughly, and recommended that a special organization, fully equipped to deal with every aspect of dollar exports be formed. That organization, which came into existence on December 21, 1951, is a nonprofit making concern known as Coras Trachtala Teo.
The aim of CTT is to put a firm, or an industry, on a level with a skilled exporting concern as far as marketing information about the dollar market is concerned. It either supplements the efforts of an export staff or for smaller firms, it can provide special export facilities. Its staff includes Trade Officers specializing in agriculture and industrial products and commercial intelligence. It has offices and display space in London, New York and Montreal.
Among the functions of CTT are the investigation of market prospects for a product and advise on its possibilities. All information is given on United States import regulations and custom duties. Firms are kept continuously informed of openings for products in the dollar area, whether information is requested or not. United States importers are supplied with details of Irish goods that are available for export. Advice is given on methods of salesmanship suitable for the area to which export is intended. Advice on packaging and design is given. Adequate and efficient publicity for Irish goods in the dollar area is provided. Credit ratings of individual dollar area importers are given. Firms are brought into direct contact with potential dollar area customers. Advice on shipping and trans-