World Ant ways Teacher
Page2	STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO IRELAND
The Air Age has made it easy to travel to Ireland.
Not only is Ireland a place which many persons from the United States and other countries want to visit, but in addition it has a significant place in the route pattern for air service to most points in Europe and around the world.
For many trans-Atlantic flights, the first stop on the east side of the Atlantic is the airport at Shannon — following, as they do, a Great Circle course similar to that followed by Lindbergh in his flight to Paris. Lindbergh passed over Ireland, although he did not land there, of course.
Some air line flights are non-stop to London or Paris, some go to Iceland and Scotland, and some by way of the Azores to Lisbon. But so many are routed via Shannon that it has become a significant crossroads for international air travel — like Honolulu, San Juan, and Lisbon, among others.
It’s travel with Ireland as the destination that we have in mind in this unit, so let’s see what will be involved in planning our air journey to the Emerald Isle.
First we’ll consult a representative of the air line, or a travel agent, who will advise us about schedtdes, fares and governmental requirements.
We may depart via Clipper from New York, or from Philadelphia, Chicago, Detroit or Boston. Elapsed time from New York will be about 12 hours — a little less from Boston, a little more from the other gateway cities.
There is a choice of President (first class) or Rainbow (tourist) service — the one w'ay fare is $411 on the President, $261 on the Rainbow, and there are savings available from these basic fares for 17-day excursions, also for family groups. We can depart any day of the week.
Our planning must begin well ahead of time — a minimum of a month, and more than that if possible — so that necessary preparations can be made, and so that we can be equipped for full enjoyment, of our visit.
A passport will be required — this is obtained from the Passport Office of the Department of State, in Washington, D.C., or in one of the other cities where State Department offices accept passport applications. Ireland does not require a visa. There is a limitation upon cigarettes carried into Ireland, and upon cigars and other tobacco;
one may carry in no more than i/% pint of perfume, $56 worth of gifts and no more than £10 in United Kingdom notes. There is no limitation upon U. S. dollars and Irish currency, but it is not permitted to leave Ireland with more money than was carried in.
We must make plans for our wardrobe, and go shopping for whatever items wre don’t already have. But this will be about the same as shopping for clothing to wear in the United States. The travel guide New Horizons recommends medium-weight clothes and sports clothes for daytime wear. It is not likely that formal evening wear will be needed. But it is important to have a warm topcoat, if it is winter. Also, a raincoat is an essential, but it may be purchased to advantage after arrival in Ireland.
Finally, for real enjoyment of our stay in Ireland, we’ll want to learn as much as we can about the country and its people as we can before we ever leave the United States. And that is the sort of thing that is presented in the succeeding pages of this unit.
No matter how much time we allow for planning and preparation, the days slip by, and we have a feeling we didn’t start early enough when the day of departure arrives.
Here it is, time to go to the airport in New York City (or other gateway city). We’re on our way to visit the home land of the ancestors of many, many Americans (including, perhaps, ourselves) and to get there in the quickest, most convenient way of traveling — by air, on a modern, luxurious multi-engine airliner.
The start of our trip gives us a good contrast of air-borne and earth-bound movement, for we check in at the East Side Air Terminal in New York City and board an airport limousine for the trip to Idlewild. On this trip, we have a good look at heavy city traffic — but we also have an opportunity to see how New York City deals with the traffic problem through construction of high speed express ways, and the limousine deposits us at Idl^wiM after a thirty-minute ride across a great part of the city.
After checking our baggage and getting a seat assignment, we have a few minutes to see what goes on at this busy international airport. People of a dozen, or a score of nationalities walk past us in the lobby, conversing in as many languages. Agents at the counters of such an airport as Idlewild must include linguists — you never
know what language may be used by the next passenger who comes up to your station.
While we wait, our bags are going to the airplane, people behind the scenes are incorporating information about us into the airplane’s documents, the flight crew members, and the operations and traffic people on the ground are completing preparations for the flight.
Now comes an announcement on the loud speaker:
“Pan American announces the departure of Flight 100 — now boarding at Gate 8.”
That’s our flight. We pass through Gate 8, walk to the airplane, up the steps, into the passenger compartment and are directed to our seats by a stewardess. When all the passengers have boarded the door is closed and the engines roar into life. The next few minutes are passed very deliberately — a pause while the Captain and the Flight Engineer up front check all the instrument dials, then, following clearance by the central tower, the taxi trip to the end of the runway, another pause for additional checking and the control tower’s clearance to take off. All is ready now, the roar of the engines deepens, the airplane begins to roll down the runway, picks up speed, lifts from the ground, and is airborne. We’re on our way to Ireland.
Upon the conclusion of our visit in Ireland, and the departure from Shannon for the trip back home, there is one feature which is not present at all airports — actually, at only a few in addition to Shannon.
Because Shannon is a crossroads of the air, as pointed out at the beginning of this article, there has been established on the airport a “free port’’ area, in which many products, including Irish woolens, linens and lace, and products from other countries too, may be purchased free of tax. These articles then may be put aboard the aircraft for entry into the United States without payment of duty, up to the limit permitted by U. S. Customs, and ranging from $200 to $500 depending upon the length of time the traveler has been abroad.
With all these bargains available, many travelers, whether they have been in Ireland or elsewhere, complete their shopping for gifts and souvenirs at Shannon Airport, in the last minutes prior to departure, or during the fuel stop of the aircraft while they are enroute from other countries to the U. S.