World	Alemes Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 4
State the functions of which are to aid the executive in administering the law. The Supreme Court passes on the constitutionality of legislation.
The Irish Constitution, considered one of the most advanced in existence, was adopted in 1937 and is the only constitution unequivocally stating that the nation is devoted to the system of free enterprise.
The Six Counties of Northern Ireland
The Six Counties of Northern Ireland are still an integral part of Great Britain. They are governed by a Parliament at Stornmont, Belfast, consisting of a House of Commons of 52 members and a Senate of 24, the former elected by popular vote, the latter by the House of Commons on the principle of proportional representation.
Among the members of the Senate are the Lord Mayors of Belfast and Derry. The Governor of Northern Ireland is head of the Government and representative of the Queen of England. Certain vital powers are vested in the British Parliament, in which Northern Ireland holds 12 seats. Subjects reserved for control and legislation by the Parliament of Great Britain include: war and peace, armed services, relations with foreign powers, foreign trade, sea and air navigation and others.
On the River Liffey
Dublin on the River Liffey is the heart of Ireland. Even if you are not Irish, you’ll agree that it is one of the finest cities in Europe, an 18th century town which offers its 600,000 inhabitants all modern comforts. Unlike Paris or Vienna, which display their beauty with extroverted exuberance, the beauty of Dublin is subtle. To familiarize yourself with the city it takes a little effort, a little time — both worth your while.
The Irish will tell you that arriving in Dublin is like stepping onto a great stage reading for the opening. The people walk-
ing the streets are in perfect character. Mellow reds, and a thousand shades of gray between white stone and black shadows color the graceful Georgian facades that reach down to the sidewalks, like backdrops and wings seen when the curtain goes up. However beautiful and interesting though the buildings are in themselves, they are no more important to your holiday than canvas scenery is to a play. The play’s the thing . . . and the people of Dublin are both the players and the playwrights.
Fittingly enough, one of the most famous attractions in Dublin is a theatre — the Abbey Theatre — and by the time you have considered that playwrights like Brinsley Sheridan, Oscar Wilde, Synge, Bernard Shaw and Sean O’Casey were born and raised in this ancient city between the Wicklow mountains and the plains of Meath, the long arm of coincidence has been dislocated.
Dubliners’ inherent gift for literary dialogue has come down to them in unabated strength through many generations. They are masters in playing with ideas and emotions. They enjoy words immensely. It is a pleasure for them to talk in magnificent terms and to give to the most ordinary conversation a charming twist with picturemaking phrases. And the humor — it is the Dubliner’s God given gift. He will forgive you almost anything if there’s the making of a good story in it. The story will be long, duly exaggerated, exquisitely told; you’ll never hear the same version twice and it will be the better for each re-telling.
You are never lonely in Dublin. You feel the warm welcome around you even while you walk the streets. In hotels and theaters, parks and beaches, people are only too ready to talk to you — in their enchanting Irish speech with a new and vivid slant to the English language.
Before long you are aware of Dublin’s heart, and you are aware, too, that beneath her fields of stone the black earth is rich with the past, with the stone and bronze tools of prehistoric men and the graves of Viking jarls, for the past clings about Dublin, guarding the traditions of hospitality and wit so that they may not be lost in the future. And once you are in Dublin and have felt what the city offers then you know you are part of it, too.
And then you start your day. The right thing to do is to stroll in the sunshine of Grafton Street — to see and to be seen. It is an old custom. Passing the shop windows you will notice that exclusive Irish models have taken a distinctive turn of their own from the rigid rules of Paris. You can see the fine materials in which the designers work. The hand-loomed tweeds are of legendary quality; so are the snowy linens, rich poplins and cobwebs of lace and crochet.
Now and then you will pause to watch the traffic. Dubliners can do anything with a bicycle. Two out of every five of them own bicycles, and every cyclist seems to pass through the center of the city at lunch-time. They weave through the traffic, dodging, speeding, balancing, having hairbreadth escapes at every hand’s turn.
Later you may walk to O’Connell Bridge, which is wider than it is long. You cross it and you are on one of Europe’s finest streets, O’Connell Street. It is Dublin’s principal thoroughfare, wide and elegant, adorned by a series of monuments, including the traditional Nelson Pillar and the more artistic Father Theobald Mathew and Parnell monuments. The street is lined with modern stores, restaurants, hotels and the General Post Office.
You can still take a horse and cab from the railroad station, and trot around the Phoenix Park in a jaunting-car with a bowler-hatted jarvey to point out the sights and to wait patiently while you visit the Zoo or watch a polo match. No wonder, Dublin Horse Show is one of the greatest in the world — there are no fewer than three racecourses on the fringes of the city, and four more within thirty miles radius.
Between O’Connell Bridge and Butt Bridge runs Eden Quay. Just off Eden Quay is Marlborough Street, where stands “The Abbey,” as theatre lovers the world over fondly call this unimpressive yet famous building. Opened in 1904, the Abbey achieved international fame a scant three years later with the world premiere of Synge’s masterpiece, “The Playboy of the Western World.”
After World War I, another great dramatist, Sean O’Casey, who drew the material for his best plays from the life of Dublin’s slums, saw his works performed at the Abbey. W. B. Yeats’ verse plays and works by Lennox Robinson, Padraic Colum, G. Fitzmaurice, and others added lustre to this famed theatre.
George Bernard Shaw, a native of Dublin but an “Englishman” by choice, had his plays premiered in London. The Abbey has also been the nursery for scores of fine actors and actresses, among them one Orson Welles who played here at the age of sixteen. The house is now an empty shell. It
BLARNEY STONE—To kiss the Blarney Stone—in Blarney Castle, located in County Cork—one must lie on his back (hers in the case of this photo) and lean back and down, while the attendant holds the legs. The kissing is reputed to result in “the gift of gab."