BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
IRELAND
Page 5
was burned out and its players perform at the Queen’s Theatre while waiting for the Abbey to be rebuilt.
College Green, a busy junction where three streets meet, is a convenient point to direct your activities. It is flanked by the curved, windowless façade of the Old Parliament House, now the Bank of Ireland, which played a notable part in Dublin’s and Ireland’s history. Opposite the bank is the long Corinthian facade of Trinity College, built in 1759 for the college which had been founded in 1591. In the Examination Hall one can see full-length portraits of its earliest fellows — Bishop Berkeley, Dean Swift, Edmund Burke — and of Queen Elizabeth, who founded the university.
Not far away is the National Museum. If you are a student of Irish history, this museum will be an inexhaustible source of information. Here you may follow step by step the cultural development of the people of this island, from the far off Stone Age through the Bronze Age, the Iron Age, the Early Christian period — to this period belongs the lovely “Tara” Brooch (circa 850) — on through the Middle Ages.
Then, flanking Leinster Lawn is the National Art Gallery, a finely proportioned building of the 18th century, which houses such celebrated paintings as “Head of St. Catherine” by Correggio, Tituan’s superb “Baldassare Castiglioni”, and the lesser known but magnificent “Pieta” of the Burgundian school, about 1480. El Greco enthusiasts will want to view his “Saint Francis in Ecstasy”.
Near Christ church Place is Werburgh Street with its old church of the same name. Around there Jonathan Swift was born. For the last 32 years of his life (he died in 1745), he served as Dean of St. Patrick’s Cathedral, which can be seen from the foot of Werburgh Street.
St. Patrick’s was founded by John Connyn in 1190, the first Englishman to become Archbishop of Dublin. Partially destroyed by fire, it was rebuilt during the middle 14th century. Its university was suppressed by Henry VIII when the chapter of St. Patrick resisted the Reformation. Ornaments and paintings were destroyed by the followers of the new doctrine and its reveriues were confiscated. During the 17th century wars, Cromwellian troops stabled their horses in the aisles.
The Cathedral is cruciform in design, 300 feet long and 67 feet wide. Its transept is 157 feet wide, and the style mainly Early English. Swift’s pulpit still stands and in the south aisle of the nave is the tomb of this somber spirit. Nearby is the grave of “Stella”, born Esther Johnson, Swift’s partner in one of the most enigmatic and tragic love stories of modern times. There is a fine marble bust of the Dean and over the door of the robing-room you may read his own bitter and sarcastic epitaph: “He lies where furious indignation can no longer rend his heart.”
Before very long you will inevitably find yourself drawn by the dark swathe of the river to stroll down the quays. After years of plundering the coast of Ireland, the Vikings eventually settled here along the south bank. They are gone from Dublin
these thousand years. Little enough the Norsemen left behind them: the nucleus of a city, the beginning of a trade, the memory of their iron names — Thorgestr and Has-culf, Olaf the White and Eric Blood-Axe. There is a scattering of auction-rooms, booksellers and curiosity-shops on both banks of the river. Nobody seems to resist these old-world places. You might mingle here with students hunting for second-hand texts and ancient browsers adjusting their spectacles over calf-bound volumes. They strain their eyes making out quaint 17th century maps, and wonder if, by dint of cleaning, any of the dim old pictures might turn out to be masterpieces.
If this is dusty, dry work, you can always turn to the open markets which are still very much alive. The pungent repartee of Moore Street, where the hawkers call the prices of their flowers and vegetables in a curious sing-song chant has made it a favorite setting for sketches by Dublin comedians. If there is a big match on in Croke Park, the city will be invaded by supporters of the two contending counties. A cheering crowd of 80,000 is an unforgettable sight you may not wish to miss. Their ballgames is something to watch.
And there are so many other things to see and to do. When you have said goodbye to your Dublin friends you feel as though you have always been with them. And it is their friendship and affection that will bring you back to Dublin.
Other Cities—Other Places
Cork, the size of Pasadena, is the second city in importance. It is the most European of cities in Ireland. Queen Victoria once said that it did not “look like an English town” as Dublin did. Here is the very essence of Europe. Once you are off its wide thoroughfares, like Patrick Street and the Grand Parade, you find yourself in a maze
of winding streets with little shops and stalls, small crooked housefronts, cobbles, tangled traffic, that could be any one of a dozen places on the Continent.
The way the old china and lockets and pieces of glasses are displayed in the shop windows, the neat, ornamental symmetry of the piles of choice imported fruits, each with its little frill of fluted paper, the polyglot books crowding the stationer’s window, the shrill of bicycle bells, the comp of horses’ hooves — there is an atmosphere about this, and it is a European atmosphere.
Like most of the coastal settlements, Cork had a violent history. Today it is a flourishing city — it belongs to writers and artists like Millikin and Maginn, James Barry and Daniel Maclise all born here. Edmund Spencer was married in Cork. That great Elizabethan once seriously advocated the extermination of the Irish people and used the phrase “as learned as the wild Irish” which is one among the few favorable comments on the Irish which can be selected from his works.
The heart of Cork is on a long, irregular island formed by the River Lee and the Irish Channel, but the city climbs the hills to the north, spreads up and down the Lee, and stretches south. The main street of the town is Patrick Street which runs in the shape of a bow from St. Patrick’s Bridge westward to the Grand Parade, another broad thoroughfare which stretches to South Mall. The city has fine monuments, parks, museums and churches. Just outside of the city the Lee widens, so that you look across broad waters toward Tivoli’s villas and gardens.
In Tivoli House Sir Walter Raleigh lived before he sailed out of Cork harbor on his last transatlantic passage. Across in Tivoli also lived Sarah Curran, Robert Emmet’s love, who was the occasion of his death
PORTARLINGTON—This is an electric generating station, near Portarlington in County Leix, which uses peat fuel from the adjoining bog. (A stockpile of fuel will be seen in the foreground.) Three boilers produce 125,000 pounds of steam each, per hour, to operate two 12,500 kw. generator sets.