IVoRLD Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 10
the best fed countries in the world.
B.	Skills: The ability to retell folk tales and legends and to speak from notes could be developed with this unit.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An understanding of the Irish desire for freedom.
2.	A realization of all the literature, music, and other forms of culture which have come to us from Ireland.
3.	A greater interest in the serious side of Eire.
4.	An understanding of its industrial problems and the methods it is using to solve them.
5.	An appreciation of the efforts of its citizens to develop greater export markets.
6.	A better understanding of the people of Eire who are not afraid to work but know how to play.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A.	Things to do:
1.	Make a collection of pictures of Eire. They are plentiful and can be arranged for a beautiful display.
2.	Have an exhibition of things made and grown in Eire.
3.	Make your own slides of the famous places of interest in Eire and show them to other classes.
4.	Read some Irish fairy stories and legends.
5.	Dramatize an enjoyable legend.
6.	Start a class bulletin board for current news of Eire.
7.	Make a Who’s Who of Eire. Include authors, musicians and political figures.
8.	Show some of the films suggested in this issue.
9.	Write for more information.
10.	Plan a plane trip to Shannon and an itinerary for Eire.
11.	Invite people who have been to Ireland to talk to your class.
12.	Make maps showing some of the well known lakes, rivers and cities.
B.	Culmination:
1.	Put on an Irish festival in the assembly using popular songs and dances.
2.	Invite other classes to share your exhibits.
3.	Any of the items in V A may be used as a culmination.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Personnel
2.	Audio-visual aids
3.	Books, travel folders, pictures, magazines
4.	Realia
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS: A continuing study of the remaining part of Ireland, followed by a study of the remainder of the British Isles would be a good follow up.
HOW FAMILIAR ARE WE WITH EIRE?
I.	Draw a map of Eire and locate:
Dublin Shannon River Lee Donegal Irish Sea Lake Killarney Bray
Cobb
Derry
River Shannon Cork Galway Limerick
II. General Questions
1.	What city of Eire has the largest population?
2.	Which country is Eire’s best customer?
3.	What was the Sinn Fein party?
4.	Why is Shannon a “custom free” airport?
5.	What kind of coastline does Eire have?
6.	Who is Eamon de Valera?
7.	Who was called “the Liberator”?
8.	What is the distinction between Northern Ireland and Eire?
9.	When was the constitution of Eire approved?
10.	What is the population of Eire?
III.	Fill in the blanks:
1.	No part of Eire is more than miles from the sea.
2.	Eire is divided into ..........
provinces.
3.	The Dail Eireann is the .......
4.	Many people in Eire still speak
5 . The natural wealth of Eire lies in its ...................
6.	About one third of the national income is derived from ....................
7.	The principal cities are located
along the .................
8.	The capital of Eire is .............
9.	Ireland has two international airports ............... and .............
10...................... passes on con-
stitutionality of legislation.
11.	Dublin is on the .............. river.
12.	The second city of importance is
IV.	Discussion Questions:
1.	How can more industries check emigration from Eire?
2.	How is the expansion of industries being furthered?
3.	Discuss the technical educational program. Do we have anything to compare with it in the United States?
4.	What part does private enterprise have in the development of industries?
5.	Review the work of the Dollar Exports Advisory Committee.
6.	Discuss Ireland’s many trade treaties.
For Further Information:
Irish Tourist Information Bureau
33 E. 50 street N Y 22
WORDS ARE	INTERESTING TOO!
anhydrite	white or nearly white calcium sulphate
antiquarian	one who deals in ancient objects
apparitions	fantoms, ghosts
apprentices	beginners, learners of trade
battlement	a parapet indented along it upper lines
bicameral	two chambers or branches
bogs	wet and spongy ground
bowler-hatted	wearing derbies
browsers	feeders, nibblers
cajoling	imposing, flattering
coincidence	one circumstance agreeing with another
confiscated	taken for public use
contorted	twisted out of shape
demesne	lands held in one’s own power, estates
dialogue	conversation by two or more
discriminatory	distinctive
dislocated	put out of place, disarranged
doctrine	held to be true, accepted
eloquence	convincing, expressive emotion
emancipation	liberation
embedded	lay in surrounding matter
enigmatic	puzzling, ambiguous
epitaph	inscription on a tomb or monument
eulogizing	speaking or writing praise
exaggerated	overstated, increased
exquisitely	beautifully, nicely
extroverted	turned outward
exuberance	plentifulness, variety
façades	fronts of buildings
fantastic	odd appearance, imaginative
fervor	great feeling, warmth
hawkers	peddlers
impair	diminish in value, injure
indigenous	native, originating in a country
indignation	resentment anger, scorn
inherent	essential
integral	a necessary part of a whole
intrigue	plot, scheme, underhand
jarls	earls, noblemen
jarvey	a hackney-coach driver
jaunting	careless ease, sprightly
leprechauns	fairies, dwarfs
lustre	gloss, sheen, highly finished
nave	main body of a church
nostalgic	homesick
nucleus	central part
placid	smooth, calm, unruffled
plebiscite	an expression of popular will by vote
polyglot	speaking in several languages
proportional	varying quantities
pungent	affecting senses of taste and smell
pyrites	fool’s gold, pale brass metal