World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 8
port facilities is also made available.
These efforts to find wider markets for Irish exports have met with success in recent years and manufactured goods in particular are making their way to many different countries in both Europe and America. 60% of Irish exports however still consist of agricultural produce, principally cattle, meat and other foodstuffs of animal origin, and Great Britain is still Ireland’s biggest customer. Ireland’s imports on the other hand come from all over the world as Irish importers buy where they can get the best quality at the lowest prices.
Trade Agreements are in force with Austria, Belgium, Britain, Finland, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Iceland, Italy, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. Most of these agreements are of a general and continuing nature and provide that each country will give all reasonable facilities for importation of goods to which the other attaches particular importance. In the agreements with Finland, France, Germany and Spain special import quotas are appointed annually for goods of Irish Origin. Under the agreements with Great Britain, almost all goods of Irish Origin are exempt from the customs duties payable on goods entering Britain. As Ireland is a member of the OEEC, Irish goods are entitled to admission to other countries under the OEEC Liberalization of Trade Program. Special import quotas referred to above relate to non-liberalized goods, which form only a small part of each country’s trade.
In January, 1950, a Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation was concluded with the United States. Under the treaty nationals of one contracting party when in the territory of the other party are guaranteed equality of treatment with citizens. It is provided in particular that neither party shall take unreasonable or discriminatory measures which would impair the legally acquired rights or interests of nationals of the other party in the enterprises they have
established. Property of nationals and companies must receive protection and security within the territory of the other party and shall not be taken without just and effective compensation.
Because of the comparative scarcity of indigenous raw materials and the still uncompleted development of the industrial side of the economy, many raw materials and manufactured goods have to be imported. These imports are paid for by exports. Visible exports are not big enough to pay for all the imports needed. The excess is paid for by other receipts from tourist traffic, remittances from emigrants and earnings from investments abroad. One of the most important of the “other” means of earning dollars abroad is the tourist industry which is ever expanding. Moreover, it is one of the most pleasant ways in which to make dollars available to the Irish people. Pan American World Airways Clipper travelers who have spent any time in Ireland will attest to the truth of this last statement.
Ireland’s long, indented coastline, flanked by mountains alternating with long stretches of sandy beaches, presents some of the choicest scenery in the world, while the wide central plain holds many areas of outstanding antiquarian interest. The quality of landscape shows an amazing variety. There is the pastoral beauty of the historic Boyne Valley and the stark, rocky grandeur of Connemara; the rugged and magnificent coastling of Donegal and the Lakes of Kil-larney. The scenic background of Ireland has a peculiar individuality and a more potent charm than the more dramatic landscapes of larger countries. There is that justly celebrated greenness, with soft gradations of color, a moist and equable climate and ever changing cloud formations of the Irish sky.
The principal cities of Ireland are located along the nation’s coast which is well studied with natural harbors. Dublin is the capital of the nation and the gateway through which the majority of visitors en-
ter the country. Set between the mountains and the sea, it is one of the world’s most beautifully situated cities. With its wide streets and historic buildings, its friendly people and its vivid traces of a long and eventful history, Dublin has an atmosphere peculiarly its own. A modern metropolis in every sense, it still preserves much of the grace and elegance of the Eighteenth Century. The great Brewery of Messrs. Guinness, the largest of its kind in Europe is located in Dublin.
The internal transport system of the country is quite extensive for its size. There are 49,000 miles of roads; 2,200 miles of railways and 415 miles of canals. Fast and frequent rail services are provided between all principal centers. Road passenger and freight services are provided by railway companies as well as by private operators. Road services supplement the railway services as well as covering areas not served by rail.
Distances from Irish ports to ports in Great Britain and on the European continent are short and there are regular steamship services to many. Ireland has two international airports,— at Shannon and Dublin. Pan American World Airways Clippers are familiar sights as they swoop down onto the runways at Shannon, which is the nation’s custom-free airport. It is connected by regular services to the United States, Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Italy and Canada. At Dublin Airport, regular services are operated between Ireland and Great Britain, France and the Netherlands.
The unofficial ambassadors of the United States which alight from each Clipper all agree that whether travelers visit Ireland for sport or relaxation, for study or business, they will encounter a cheerful, hospitable people, eager to exchange ideas and opinions with a stranger. Ireland is a land where conversation is still an everyday art, where people are not afraid to work but where they still know how to play also.
DUBLIN — World-famous O'Connell Street could be called the "Street of Statues," of which the most well-known is the Nelson Pillar (left background). Erected in 1808, it is 134 feet in height. For an admission of six pence, a visitor may go to its top for an unexcelled view of Dublin and the country-side.