quadrupled rend repartee sarcastic shillelaghs
sinister statutory subordinate
swathe symmetry turreted unabated undulating unequivocally
verdure version vested vital
BIBLIOGRAPHY EIRE (Ireland)
Irish Roundabout — Mitchell — Dodd Mead Land and People of Ireland — O’Brien — Lippincott
Towpath Tad — Foyle — American News Mullingar Heifer — Walsh — American News Irish Fairy Tales — Stephens — Macmillan Celtic Fairy Tales — Jacobs — American News Irish Fairy and Folk Tales—Yeats — Random
This Pleasant Lea — Crone — Scribners The Young Travelers Series — Sayers et al — Dutton
Adventures in Ireland — Martin —
American News
The Irish, A Character Study — O’Faolain — Devin-Adair
The Road Around Ireland — Colum — Macmillan
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
IRELAND
Introducing Ireland — Finn — London
Museum
Tramping Through Ireland — Gibbons— Dutton
Irish Gold — Hinkson — Knopf All About Ireland — Creed — Duell The Silent Traveler in Dublin — Yee — Day Islands Apart — Ryan — Morrow Death in Dublin — O’Connor — Doubleday Eamon de Valera — McManus — Ziff-Davis Ireland — Byrne — Little Brown In Search of Ireland — Morton —
Dodd Mead
Twenty Years A-Growing — O’Sullivan — Viking
My Ireland — Dunsary — Funk & Wagnalls Ireland — Freeman — Dutton This is Ireland — Hayward — Barker Ireland’s Story — Johnston & Spencer — Houghton Mifflin
Lovely is the Lee — Gibbings — Dutton Sweet Cork of Thee — Gibbings — Dutton Over the Hill to Ballybog — Watts Huntting The Blarney Stone — Hewlett — Appleton Century Croft
James Joyce’s Dublin — Hutchins — Gray-Walls
Magazine and Newspaper Articles
American Magazine — April 1956
Reporter — February 23, 1956
Cosmopolitan — March 1956
Vogue —April 15, 1956
Travel —May 1954
National Geographic — July 1953
American — April 1953
Holiday — October 1954, November 1954
Newsweek — March 23, 1953
Saturday Review — April 18, 1953
Readers Digest — November 1953
multiplied by four separate, remove, tear aparl witty reply taunting, scornful stout sticks famous in Ireland unlucky, evil legislative enactment lower order or rank, of less importance wrap in bandages harmony, balance armed towers on a castle undiminished, not decreased wavy in appearance clearly, plainly understandable greenness of vegetation a modified description robed, furnished, endowed affecting life, necessary
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
IRELAND
Motion Pictures
ULSTER MAGAZINE-20 min. sound b & w —British Information Service, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.
An American describes his trip through “loyal Ulster” or Northern Ireland. The journey enables him to observe many phases of agriculture, aviation, shipbuilding industries, and much scenery. Government, including that of the counties, is briefly explained as are Ulster’s relations to Great Britain. Ireland’s role in Nato and defense mentioned.
IRELAND —15 min. sd. b & w — McGraw Hill Text Film Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York City.
Produced by the March of Time, this film gives a brief history of the Republic of Ire-
land, the reason for Irish neutrality during World War II, the economic and social life of the Irish people.
IRISH CHILDREN, RURAL LIFE IN WESTERN IRELAND-10 min. sd. b & w — Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Daily life of the O’Reillys, a farm familv of County Clare. Mary and Susan, elementary school children, help with family tasks after school hours and on holidays. Shows haying, peat cutting, tending animals, cooking, churning, spinning, games and music.
WINGS TO IRELAND - 30 min. sd. color. Ideal Pictures, 65 So. Water St., Chicago, 111. Produced by Hartley Productions for Pan-American World Airways.
Page 11
We travel with an American family by Pan-American Airways to Ireland seeing the historic castles, churches and scenic beauties of the countryside and the activities of city life. We visit various places in Ireland going by car, on horseback and by jogging cart.
This is an exceptionally well-produced film, — the photography, the color, the apt use of natural sound and speech recorded on location, the close-ups of the people gives one a feeling of being carried to Ireland.
LAND OF ULSTER — 35 min. sd. color. British Information Service, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.
Here is the social and economic pattern of the farming people in North Ireland, graphically and interestingly presented in a special film made as Ulster’s main contribution to the 1951 Festival of Britain.
IRISH LINEN-22 min. sd. b & w - Hartley Productions, 20 West 47th St., New York City.
Portrays the making of Irish linen from the growing of flax to the finished article. The first part presents the production of linen. The last part is filmed in color and presents many ways in which linen may add to the pleasure and graciousness of living — beautiful table settings, personal clothing, towels, etc.
A VISIT TO IRELAND-10 min. sd. b & w — color. Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago 1, 111.
A picture of life in Ireland. A man from the United States visits Ireland and we travel with him in viewing the country, seeing the scenery and historic places of Ireland, family life, customs of the rural areas and the city. Develops the idea that Ireland is in many ways similar to parts of the U. S. and that the customs and ways of life are also similar.
ULSTER STORY - 14 min. sd. b & w -British Information Service, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City.
Northern Ireland, not much bigger than the state of Connecticut, is generally known as Ulster. It is a country of small prosperous farms, a land of linen and flax, of milk and potatoes. Ulster is a land of plenty, rich in agriculture and industry.
THE INFORMER-14 min. sd. b & w-Teaching Films Custodians, 25 West 43rd St., New York City.
An excerpt from a feature film released by R.K.O., Gypo Nolan, an Irish rebel, succumbs to temptation, and betrays his friend to the “Black and Tans” for the 20 pounds reward offered for the capture of the revolutionary leader.
MAN OF ARAN-70 min. sd. b & w-Contemporary Films, 13 East 37th St., New York City.
Produced and directed by Robert Flaherty, this documentary portrays the struggle for existence of the fishermen and their families on the bleak islands of Aran in Galway Bay, off the west coast of Ireland.