Page T-2
Pan American
Roblo Airways Teacher
c
Pas American
World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
MORE STUDY UNIT REPRINTS COMING
Flash! Flash!
The loose-leaf bound reprints of the World Airways Teacher study units introduced last year have been so popular that a second group has been prepared, and will be ready for distribution this spring.
For those who may have just tuned in, we’d better explain:
The World Airways Study units, like Ireland in this issue, have proved to have permanent appeal. Libraries file them, and teachers hold on to their personal copies. Many requests for back issues have been received, and these were honored as long as copies were available. But stock was soon exhausted, so we went to the readers with a question: “If we’ll review the past units, bring them up-to-date, reprint them and provide a loose leaf binder to keep them in, would it be worth a dollar to you to have a permanent set?”
The answer came back, “Yes,” so we set up Group 1 of the World Airways Teacher study unit reprints, including Alaska, Australia and New Zealand, Germany, India, Japan, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, South Africa, and United Kingdom.
Countries and areas in Group II of the World Airways Teacher Study Units include the ABC Countries (Argentina, Brazil and Chile); Benelux (Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg; the Caribbean; Central America; France; Hawaii; Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal); Italy; Middle East (Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq).
The arrangement for acquiring Group II will be the same as that for Group I. Price will be one dollar, cash or check with order.
This is an advance notice — we’re not prepared just yet to accept orders. We don’t want to do that until we are in a position to respond immediately when an order is received.
But any who want to put us on notice that they want Group II of the study units are invited to do so, and we suggest this method of giving such notice. Send us a two-cent post card saying “Please reserve a set of Group II study units,” and give your name and address. Send no money at this time. But if you send us the card we’ll advise you far enough in advance of publication date so that you can then pay for Group II, and be among those to be included in the initial distribution.
Thanks for your letters of appreciation. Do hope you’ll like Group II as well as you’ve said you have liked Group I.
DON PEDRO ROJAS
The thrill of seeing his lifetime goal realized and recognized has come to Don Pedro Rojas, an almost 100-year old Bolivian Ay-mara Indian. Though unable to read or write or speak Spanish, he has been in the forefront of the effort to bring the benefits of education to Bolivians living at altitudes 12,000 to 13,000 feet on the vast Andean plains of the Bolivian altipiano.
And he knows now that not only is his work appreciated among his own Aymaras, but word of it also spread over Bolivia, and even to the United States.
From the early efforts of Don Pedro, his neighbors, and a lone rural teacher, has grown the Warisata Rural Normal School with moie than 600 pupils. The greatest growth has been in the last 16 years, since the United States joined with Bolivia in 1944 to form the Servicio Cooperativo Interamericano de Educacion (SCIDE).
Full recognition came recently when Don Pedro was invited to an assembly of all the
students and faculty of the Warisata school. The Bolivian Minister of Rural Affairs, Alvaro Perez del Castillo came up from La Paz to voice his appreciation of Don Pedro’s pioneering efforts. At this gathering, Dr. Thomas A. Hart, Director of SCIDE, presented an original oil painting of Rojas to the school. The painting was a tribute to the old Aymara Indian from the artist Roger Wolcott. An ICA audio-visual technician stationed in Panama, Wolcott worked from a color photo transparency. He was inspired by the character in Don Pedro’s face and what he had heard of his work for education.
At this point, Don Pedro’s eloquence in his native tongue of Aymara, which had originally helped to bring education to the altiplano, deserted him. The ceremony left him speechless. All he could do was smile. Sharing his joy were his 105 year old wife and his grandson Hilarion, now a teacher at the Warisata school.
Two Warisata students use the school wall to do homework.
AN TOSTAL
Ireland’s spring time festival —An Tostal — is scheduled this year for May 12 to 26, a timely thought in connection with the study unit on Ireland which appears in this issue of World Airways Teacher.
The year 1957 will see the fifth observance of An Tostal, with special emphasis on events of interest to visitors from other countries, including:
Dublin. A festival of the drama. An exhibition of paintings collected from all Ireland. An exhibit of the works of Paul Henry.
Cork. An international choral festival, a folk dancing event, recitals by the London Philharmonic, a season of ballet, of drama, concerts, exhibitions and sporting features.
Limerick City. Light opera and musical comedy.
Tralee. Light opera and musical comedy.
Rosslare Harbour. The Third International Tostal Mumming Festival.
The foregoing are representative only — more than fifty cities, towns and villages will have special programs.
Pedro Rajos talks with Dr. Thomas A. Hart, Director of the U.S. Education Program in Bolivia.