Page 7
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
The nation’s principal cocoa customers are the United Kingdom and the United States which purchased 28% and 20% of the 1955 cocoa crop respectively.
Though cocoa is the main crop of Ghana, much emphasis is laid on the need to build up food production, both in quantity and variety, to lower the cost of living, and to enrich the national diet. At present production is about 3,000,000 tons a year, and this figure includes staple food crops such as maize, millet, rice, yams, cassava and groundnuts, and other crops such as palm oil, limes, cola nuts, coconut oil, copra and shea butter. The country is mainly self-supporting but there are some imports of foodstuffs. Principal food imports are fish and wheat flour nearly all from the United States and Canada.
Agricultural Stations
To increase local production a large scale development plan, begun in 1951, has provided a network of agricultural stations which will shortly be in full operation. The function of these stations is to examine the special problems of their areas in order to provide advice and assistance to farmers. Examples of their work include mechanization, pest and disease control and the testing of new crops and varieties.
At the Kpong station, an important pilot irrigation scheme is being undertaken to test the possibilities of developing the potentially fertile soils of the Accra plains. No less important is the attack on soil erosion and the developments in mixed farming and rice production which have been promoted in the Northern Territories. In the south, production of coffee, oil palms and bananas is being actively developed.
The Northern Territories and the coastal plains from Accra to the eastern frontier are the main livestock areas of Ghana. The indigenous cattle, the West African shorthorn, is one of the oldest breeds in Africa. Sheep, goats, pigs and poultry are also kept, but supplies of livestock are too low to meet the domestic demand and large numbers are imported mainly from French West Africa. Until recently, improvement schemes were hindered by livestock diseases but with the help of four mobile immunization centers, these diseases have been largely brought under control. With improved research and demonstratioh centers at Pong-Tamale and Nungwa, the way has been opened for further development.
Meanwhile, much attention has been given to poultry farming. A scheme for importing day-old chicks and rearing them to eight weeks before selling them to farmers has been very successful and has led to the establishment of a number of poultry farms. In general, however, much still remains to be done before livestock production can hope to satisfy the country’s evergrowing demand for more meat, milk and eggs in its daily diet.
Timber Wealth
Timber wealth in Ghana is concentrated in approximately 12,000 square miles divided about equally into reserved and unreserved areas. A program of forest
reservation in the closed forest is almost complete and the 6,000 square miles of reserves will form a permanent forest estate. Reserved timber areas are becoming increasingly important to the maintenance of the timber trade as areas of unreserved forest diminish.
The timber industry falls into two main categories, log export and sawmilling both for home and export markets. The production of veneers and plywood is now firmly established. Timber consists entirely of hardwoods, which were in considerable demand after World War II due to a shortage in the world’s softwood supplies. World softwood supplies improved in 1952 and there was a considerable decline in exports. Since that year however, exports of hardwoods, other than mahogany, have greatly exceeded 1948 levels in both amount and value. Both logs and sawn timber are exported and the latter is also consumed locally.
Forest reserves are also used for protective purposes, such as insuring a continuance of the climatic conditions suitable for agriculture, particularly cocoa; safeguarding the sources of water supplies and preventing erosion. A further important function of the reserves is to insure supplies of firewood and other forest produce such as poles for roofing.
The forest reserves, and the land on which they are situated, continue to belong to the individual owners, but the Forestry Department is given certain powers by law to insure both that the trees are felled in such a way as to give a sustained yield and also that adequate measures can be taken to maintain valuable timber species.
The demand for fish far outstrips the supply, though the potential fishing re-
sources of Ghana’s waters are virtually untouched. At present, most of the estimated catch of 20,000 tons a year is landed by about 8,000 fishing canoes, gaily carved and painted craft, hollowed from tree trunks, which work from the open beaches along the whole length of the coast. But skillful though the fishermen are, little can be done to increase the catch by these traditional methods.
A development plan was instituted in 1951 with three objectives: To introduce small powercraft into the industry; to prepare for the use of larger vessels; and to develop inland fisheries, particularly in the Northern Territories. Considerable progress has been made on these aims. A boat-building yard at Sekondi which started work at the end of 1952, is now producing small motorized fishing boats which can rival any craft of similar type afloat.
Rivers in the Northern Territories have been explored, instruction courses have been held, and much careful research has gone into the problem of combating such diseases as river blindness which have hitherto kept fishermen away from rivers in this area. Finally, the establishment of a large trawler fleet largely depends on adequate harbor facilities, but a start will be made with the completion of the new fishing harbor at Tema.
Growing Industries
Though predominantly an agricultural and trading country, Ghana has a growing variety of industries, and industrial expansion figures largely in plans for the future. The Government financed Industrial Development Corporation was established in 1947 as one method of encouraging this expansion.
Ghana Information Service
LIGHTER—Since Ghana's coastline has no natural harbors, surf boats are used to unload ships, as is being done here at the Accra beach. But there is a deep water harbor at Takoradi, and breakwaters are being constructed at Tema, sixteen miles east of Accra.