latest cigarette-making machinery and has an average monthly output of about 50,-000,000 cigarettes. The two brands produced are so popular, however, that a large new factory, capable of producing 150,000,000 cigarettes a month, is being built on an adjacent site. A proportion of locally grown tobacco is used and plans include increasing the proportions as fast as possible.
Other local industries include brewing, the production of lime juice and mineral waters, food canning and salt manufacture. Production of cocoa butter has declined and factories have been changing to the processing of shea nuts. There is also a thriving pottery industry which has been in operation since 1951 and is being expanded.
Ghana exchanges its cocoa beans, timber and mineral produce for supplementary food supplies, manufactured articles and machinery and transportation equipment. Manufactured items of some sort account for almost half of total imports.
Ghana's Exports
The United Kingdom is the nation’s principal buyer and source of supply taking about 41% of total exports and supplying about 47% of all imports. The United States purchases about 18% of Ghana’s exports but supplies only about 5% of its imports.
The Netherlands supplies 7% of Ghana’s total imports and purchases about 11% of its exports. Western Germany purchases about 5% of the nation’s total exports and supplies about 11% of its imports.
Japan supplies about 9% of total imports into Ghana but exports to Japan are insignificant.
Ghana has sent out a number of trade missions to study increased commercial relations with countries both outside of and behind the Iron Curtain. Trade is vital to the nation and every possibility must be explored.
Although there are regular stores in all of the towns of Ghana, with especially modern ones in the chief trading centers, the most colorful part of the country’s internal commerce are its market places. Actually these form the chief means of distribution of consumer goods to the people. They consist of row upon row of stalls, operated mainly by women, and stacked with such local produce as bright piles of tomatoes and peppers, bananas and limes or dried fish and textiles. A visit to these market places will provide one of the best introductions possible to the people of Ghana.
It is true that ethnically the population of Ghana represents a wide variety of peoples, but at the same time there is a unity which expresses itself in many ways, — in a will to work, a desire to learn, an enjoyment of life, the strength of family ties, the love of children, and a tradition of helping others. These attributes are all to be found on the credit side of any balance sheet of the potentialities for natural growth and development.
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
Page 9
GHANA
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why was this new nation
formed?
A. Reason for Selection:
1.	It is always interesting to find out the reasons for the formation of a new country in the 20th century.
2.	Ghana became the 81st member nation of the United Nations.
3.	Air travel will increase the importance of this new nation.
4.	Several articles in current magazines and newspapers concerning Ghana have aroused a desire to know more about the country.
5.	The desire for and the interest in all things new in education have fe-sulted in the formation of new colleges and the use of many new techniques.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	A list of new nations accepted as members of the United Nations should be used regularly so that students will be kept up to date on this.
2.	The story of Ghana’s woman delegate to the U.N. and her remarks about the position of women in her country would arouse interest.
3.	The use of the Autobiography of Kwame Nkrumah would make a good starting point for a discussion.
4.	A discussion of the changes in health and education in many sections of the world, brought about in many instances by the “air age”, would include changes in Ghana.
5.	The use of films listed in this issue would also make a good starting point.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What does the background of this new nation contribute to the culture of the world?
2.	How does a new nation take its place among the old and established nations of the world?
3.	What changes have been brought about because the airplane makes the country more accessible?
4.	Who are the present leaders and what are their contributions?
5.	What natural resources and industrial projects are helping this nation to take its place among other nations of the world?
6.	How can we “discover” the progress made in cultural, social and economic fields?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject matter:
1.	Social Studies:—history of the country, formed from Gold Coast and Togo-land; settled by many European nations, Portuguese, Dutch, Danes, English; Accra, capital and aerial gateway; cities of Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Cape Coast, Koforidua, Tamale; Volta River, largest, Tano, Ankobra, Prah, Densu, Birim Rivers; Lake Tama and Bosomtwi; the Ashantis; government patterned after that of the United Kingdom, one house called National Assembly, speaker and 104 members, term of 5 years; world’s largest producer of cocoa; agriculture, fishing, mining, forestry, chief industries; gold, manganese, diamonds and bauxite are exported; growth of tobacco industry; compulsory education, strong desire for education for all, institutions of higher education, training of women in technical areas; no natural harbors, man made harbor at Takoradi, Tema; market place still more colorful than stores; many languages and dialects used; castles at Elmina, Cajre Coast, Christiansborg; work of missionaries; establishment of United Gold Coast convention; became new nation March 6, 1957; Lord Listowel, Governor General; Dr. J. B. Danquah, Kwame Nkrumah, helpers in new movement; 81st member of the United Nations; Gloria Addae, one member of U.N. delegation; first African ruled republic; flag, red, gold and green stripes, black star in center.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words — listed in this issue.
b.	Literature — the country is too new to have literature of its own. However, reading some of the material listed in the Bibliography will give the student a very good background.
c.	Oral communication — discuss the events leading up to the formation of the new nation; debate some of the conclusions of Kwame Nkrumah; dramatize the formation of the new nation; read excerpts from articles in answer to questions; report on information gathered.
d.	Written communication — write for more information about Ghana; invite others to share your information; review a book or a film; write newspaper articles imagining “you were there”; plan a trip to Ghana and list the interesting things to see.
3.	Science:—location near the equator and near the Saharah; man made