Page 5
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
took from the Danes and then the Danes took it back from the Portuguese. The British, when they took over the Gold Coast, used Christiansborg as an asylum for a while. In 1900 the old castle was made into Government House.
During World War II Accra served as an Allied transatlantic airbase and was also the site of the US Air Transport Command for West Africa.
The capital city is making great progress. It has an extensive municipal bus service, hospitals, two cathedrals, Anglican and Roman Catholic, and many other churches. Accra’s 140,000 inhabitants are proud of their advances in education, for Achimota College established in 1927 and University College in 1948 point their way to a better future.
The University College of Ghana
Ghana attaches great importance to the training of its future leaders. Secondary education at Achimota School began some thirty-three years ago. Full provision for higher education came with the opening of the University College in 1948. In its buildings, not yet completed, debate about university education is as keen as in the United States and is perhaps even more urgent.
On top of Legon Hill, where the Senate House and University Church are to be built, can still be seen a grove of trees once considered sacred. Here students like to stroll after tea, when the tropical sun is rushing towards the horizon, and to enjoy the cool Atlantic breeze.
Ten miles to the south students see the sprawling and fast-growing capital city of Accra with its high ferro-concrete office blocks and stores; and farther along the coast there are the vast constructional works of Tema harbor. This is the Ghana of the future — urban and industrialized.
If the students look north they see the ancient rounded backs of the Akwapim Hills beyond which stretches the Ashanti Forest and then hundreds of miles of savannah country to the southern fringes of the Sahara.
The University College will provide — when completed — accommodation and teaching facilities for 5,000 students. Today there are three halls of residence with a capacity for 700 students and about 150 bungalows for the teaching and administrative staff. Much of the teaching is still done in temporary quarters. Linked to the University of London in academic policy and standards, the College conforms to the normal university pattern. It teaches a wide range of subjects: classic and modern languages, literature, history, economics, sociology, the physical and biological sciences and so on. Research is actively pursued in all departments and students are highly qualified.
Yet this is happening in a country whose inhabitants are mainly living in a tribal society, with no national language, little recorded history and hardly any literature. Many students, we are told, spend their vacations with parents of little education in rudimentary mud houses. The same students during the school year work on Greek
texts, do well in mathematics or chemistry and take part in a performance of Macbeth.
In a fascinating article published in a London magazine the writer quotes a student as follows: “I have been making my own discoveries in a strange world you have not dreamed of. I am reading Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice now. It is all about four young women getting married. You have no idea how complicated life is for them. The possibilities of doing wrong, getting hurt, or offending others, are infinite. My difficulty is that often the moral and social standards are not stated in the book but have to be inferred. The very first sentence — ‘It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife’ — implies that this is by no means universally acknowledged and that you have to catch the ironic tone of the sentence in order to get the proper meaning.
“These subtleties of tone and meaning” continues the student “are new to us in Ghana. Our courtship and marriage customs are so well regulated and rigid that the range of feelings that can occur are equally simple and straightforward. Irony would have have been regarded by our fathers as irreligous or subversive.”
Students not only learn literature and Greek. The University College has its own experimental farm, on which various kinds of important products and plants are grown. Courses include a Degree in Agriculture in addition to the normal range of university subjects.
Teachers and students agree that the aim of higher education is the same everywhere — namely, to liberate thought and imagination, to stimulate intellectual curiosity, to
challenge the traditional w'ay of life with its resigned acceptance of conventions and taboos. The effectiveness of the University College will be gauged by the progress of the new Ghana.
Progress in Various Fields
There is in Ghana today intense and widespread interest in education at all levels. The number of children attending primary schools had grown from about 80,000 in 1946 to 235,000 in 1951. The number of teachers in training had doubled during the same period, and the foundation in 1950 of the Institute of Education, as part of the University College, provided the first center for advance teacher training in the country. In 1955, according to a recent report, 430,000 children were attending schools.
The Government’s Department of Information Service continues to help with education and literacy campaigns, particularly through the work of its film unit and the motion picture vans which brought films to the remoter areas. The Government’s Broadcasting Department maintains two transmitters in Accra and 27 relay stations throughout the country. Programs and news services are in English and the six main languages of Ghana. In July 1955 there were over 800 students in United Kingdom universities and other educational institutions.
Ghana is a free and independent State today. It is a member of the United Nations. Ghana wants other African territories to win their freedom, too. “It is our duty as the vanguard force,” writes Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah in his autobiography, “to offer what assistance we can to those now engaged in the battles that we ourselves have fought and won.”
Ghana Information Service
COUNCIL MEETING—The state council in Ashanti assembles to conduct its legislative business. Members are local chieftans.