Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
ELECTION IN TOGOLAND - 20 min. Sd.
color — Contemporary Films Inc., 13 East
37th St., New York 16, N. Y.
This film produced by the U.N. Film Board is the story of the first plebescite ever held in a U.N. Trust Territory, when the people of Togoland in Africa decided by vote to join the adjoining Gold Coast and go on to independence as part of that nation under the new name of “Ghana”. This was the first time a U.N. Trusteeship Administration had seen a people achieve the will of the majority through a freely cast vote.
As we travel with the members of the U.N. Plebescite Commission, who are arranging the election machinery, we see this African land in all its color and observe the Togolanders at work and at play. We see the children go eagerly to school, for the values of good education have been stressed.
The natives of Togoland are a proud people, happy in the prospect for modernization of their country — to build new roads, bridges, and other civic improvements, and in the film we see scenes of recent advancements in education, economic and industrial achievements. The street and market scenes which are depicted show contrasts of ancient African costumes mingled with twentieth century western costumes. The photography is excellent and the use of color highlights the interesting material which is portrayed of the lives of the people.
(Ed. Note: The following films produced under the auspices of the British Information Service are currently available from Contemporary Films, Inc. 13 East 37 th Street, New York City — the official agency of the British Information Service). AMENU’S CHILD - 33 min. Sd b.8cw.
Told in the traditional idiom of an African folk tale, this film shows how an African Gold Coast tribe, which has been under the superstitious influence of medicine men and fetish priests, finally finds new faith through the help of a local health clinic. The clinic shows parents that their children can grow up into strong and healthy citizens through modern food, diet and sanitary methods. The film won an award at the Venice International Festival in 1950 and was shown at the Edinburgh Festival in the same year.
BAMIRI VILLAGE - 13 min. Sd. b & w
This is the story of a village in Ashanti, Gold Coast. Its people eager for improvement have helped themselves. The film shows how they built a Community Hall, a day nursery financed from a communal farm, and then a water supply.
GOLD COAST BUILDERS - 11 min. Sd.
b & w.
The African people are being taught how to make bricks from clay, so that they may aid in the rebuilding project which is now
in operation. The mud huts now in use are far from durable, but the new huts, built of hard baked bricks, will insure permanent protection from the elements. GOLD COAST PEOPLE - 11 min. Sd.
Color.
A study of Gold Coast people — their life and ways. Scenes show Accra, the Gold Coast capital, with its shops, cinemas, newspapers and hospitals; Kumasi, the chief city of the Ashanti, whose country is now the home of the cocoa and mining that bring most of her prosperity to the Gold Coast; and life in the great cities is contrasted with the simple life in the villages. THE GOLD COAST VOTES - 17 min.
Sd. b & w.
Political advances are more marked in the Gold Coast than in any other part of Africa. This film gives an account of the 1954 elections in the territory and of the campaigns of the parties involved. POTTERY IN THE GOLD COAST - 9
min. Sd. b & w.
Achimota College in the Gold Coast brings to Africans who have ancient pottery traditions, some of the skill of other countries. The film shows the complete technique of pottery-making from the raw clay to the finished article.
PROGRESS AT KOJOKROM - 28 min.
Sd. b & w.
A film to explain the reorganization of Local Government in the Gold Coast. Mr. Addo, a humorous character, is represented as resisting payment of rates for the Local Council on the grounds that the Local Council activities bring no benefit to him. The film, in brief episodes, shows the benefits which accrue to him and the other ratepayers.
WEAVING IN TOGOLAND - 24 min. Sd.
b & w.
At Achimota College, Gold Coast, much training is given in the crafts to prepare students to teach in rural areas. In this film a group instruct in a village in Togoland where spinning and weaving have been a part-time industry for many years. The men and women learn quickly the new methods with improved equipment. The greater variety of patterns and new colors bring orders for their cloth from far and near and soon a new prosperity comes to the village.
DRUMS FOR A HOLIDAY - 35 min. Sd.
Color.
The Gold Coast, its history, its industries and its export trade in cotton and cocoa, and its social and political life. The film ends with a magnificent spectacle — the Durbar — called every few years by the Governor of the Gold Coast. Throughout this day of celebration and pageantry, the throbbing of the famous “talking drums” fills the city. As the great day ends, the farmers return to the cocoa crop, which will be sent by ship to all parts of the world.
Filmstrips
THE GOLD COAST AND ITS PEOPLE -45 frames, silent, with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, 1345 West Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Photographs and maps are used to present the outstanding physical features of the region as well as the customs, habits, activities and life of the people. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT IN WEST AFRICA — 21 frames, silent with captions. British Information Service, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City.
Shows how community development is bringing social progress to West Africa (Nigeria, Togoland). Schools, roads, medical facilities and water supplies are being built by the villagers who will benefit directly from them.
AFRICA: CONTINENT IN FERMENT -74 frames, silent, b & w. Life Magazine, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Based on the African issue of Life Magazine, May 4, 1953. Describes the representative peoples of Africa, discusses the geography and natural resources of the continent and outlines its history. Surveys the political unrest in various countries where both the growing spirit of nationalism and the conflict between the black and white races are creating serious problems.
AFRICA: EXPLOSIVE CONTINENT -58 frames, silent with captions, b & w. New York Times, Times Square, New York City.
This is one of the New York Times 1957-1958 Series of Filmstrips on Current Affairs, and will be available in May, 1958. It will portray the swelling movement toward nationalism and independence in African nations, the colonial areas and peoples, the racial conflicts and the continent’s importance. A teaching guide accompanies the filmstrip, describing projects for research study and follow-up activities.
Recordings
Music of Equatorial Africa (FE 4402) Music of the Ituri Forest (FE 4483)
Folk Music of the Western Congo (FE 4427) The Baoule of The Ivory Coast (FE 4456) Folk Music of Liberia (FE 4465)
Bulu Songs from the Cameroons (FE 4451) Folkways Records, 117 W. 46th St., NYC, 33-1 /3 rpm longplay records.
The new and old in Africa today make it a land of striking contrasts and for those who would like to know more about the new Ghana (formerly The Gold Coast of Africa), here are six record albums (long-play) issued by Folkways Records which cover the centuries-old cultural and musical backgrounds of the people of this area.
The music includes work songs, play songs and dances, hunting songs and ritual chants. The instruments, used either in accompaniment to songs and dances or in instrumental pieces, of fascinating variety, include, drums, sansa (thumb piano), flutes, harps, lyre, zither, xylophone, musical bow, guitars and other instruments, ancient and modern. There are vocal solos, choruses, group singing and even a trial scene, as well as the famous “drum talk” in these recordings which are accompanied by detailed descriptive notes often pictorially illustrated.