Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
It is interesting to note that the first popular movement for self-government in the country was founded by Dr. J. B. Danquah. It was in 1947 when the United Gold Coast Convention was established. Its members were drawn largely from the professional and educated middle classes and certain of the great chiefly families.
They were nationalists but not revolutionaries. Their aim was self-government as soon as possible, to be achieved by constitutional methods.
In December 1947 the movement was joined by a young member, Kwame Nkru-mah (then 38 years old), who returned to the Gold Coast from England to become Secretary of the United Gold Coast Convention (UGCC), and at once assumed a dominant position.
During ten years’ study in the United States and a further two years in London, Mr. Nkrumah had taken an active part in various political organizations for Negro advancement and for self-government in Africa, and had considerable knowledge of the methods of mass movements. He began to extend the activities of the UGCC to all classes and regions, and made a particular appeal to the youth of the country.
A gifted orator, Mr. Nkrumah instituted mass meetings in the towns, and traveled extensively throughout the country to urge self-government. His typical slogan was “Seek ye first the political kingdom and all things will be added unto it.” Mr. Nkrumah organized his own party — the Convention People’s Party — and in the election of 1951 the CPP obtained an overwhelming victory. In 1952 Mr. Nkrumah became Prime Minister, the first such appointment
to be held by an African in any British dependency.
In 1956 the Gold Coast Government published its proposals for the achievement of full independence as a member State of the Commonwealth. On March 6, 1957 Ghana achieved its final goal.
Some Traditional Institutions
Many years will pass before a number of traditional native institutions of Ghana fade away. Some of those institutions are broadly similar. Their best-known feature is the association of political authority with the “stool” or throne, on which, on solemn occasions, the spirits of the chief’s ancestors are believed to sit.
“The stool in the Gold Coast replaces the throne in Europe,” writes W.E.F. Ward in his book A History of the Gold Coast, 1948. “But the stool is more than the throne. The stool on which a chief sat in his lifetime is consecrated after his death, and becomes the shrine for his spirit, which continues to guard his people. In some cases, such as the famous Golden Stool of Ashanti, a special stool is made and consecrated to be a collective shrine for the ancestral spirits of the whole nation. Such a stool, of course, is never to be sat on. As a rule, however, there is no one stool; there is a collection of carefully cherished ancestral stools, and the ordinary stool used by the present chief is destined in due course to be added to their number.”
ACCRA — the Capital
Accra is one of the most interesting cities in Africa. The name Accra (rhymes with McHah) seems to be a Europeanization of
NKRAN (literally black ant), the name applied by the Akan-speaking people of the Gold Coast to the Ga groups who arrived from Nigeria to settle on the Accra plain and to mingle with the inhabitants.
The first impression a visitor is apt to get is of extreme animation. The streets are thronged with people in their romanlike togas. The site of the town is a cliff 25 to 39 feet high which projects at three points to form coves that afford partial shelter for landing of boats through the surf.
The airport and its hotel and restaurant look like a prodigious dance hall; it is most exhilarating. The contrasts of Accra are unusual. The city has smartly uniformed irolicewomen. In the big company stores, which look like rough warehouses, one can get anything from rude ivory ornaments to the finest things of European and American goods.
The city is the capital of a black society, and color bar has virtually disappeared. There are several mixed marriages in Accra. The best known is that of Joseph Manuel Appiah, formerly the personal representative of the Prime Minister in London, to a daughter of Sir Stafford Cripps.
The two things that make Accra most picturesque are the togalike dress of the people and the signs on trucks and buses. The visitor is astonished to see so many exotic and brightly colored designs on cloth. A lady may wear pictures of a rhinoceros, pop bottles, or top hats. Trucks and buses may carry provocative signs, such as “Safety First with God,” or “See Before You Say, My Happiness, Abomination Has No Remedy.”
In Accra the visitor becomes aware of the national costume of Ghana. It is a robe worn like a Roman toga, with the left arm and shoulder exposed. Some poeple, depending on the weather, wear a kind of thin chemise under their togas.
The toga worn by high dignitaries is often magnificent. Some of the togas have a dusty golden color, with a rectilinear design in deeper gold, yellow, red, and pale green. The silk that goes into togas like these, which are customarily worn only by chiefs, is called Rente cloth. It is designed and made locally. Rente cloth is woven in long narrow strips, and these, when sewn together to make the robe, give it a characteristic pattern. A good robe may cost thousands of dollars.
Accra has several old forts built by European traders in the 17th century. Christians-borg Castle is undoubtedly the most interesting.
Built right up out of the sea, a lather of surf slaps without pause against the walls. Danish slave traders built it in 1661. The stone came from Denmark. The structure is the most dazzling white, with tall palms leaning against crenelated battlements, and kingfishers nesting in the moldy cannon. In the garden grow maroon, salmon-pink, scarlet and pale yellow cannas.
Danish traders bought the promontory where Christiansborg sits in stately radiance for seven gold bars, from African chiefs in the neighborhood. Then the Portuguese
Ghana Information Service
BOAT MAKING—Fashioning a boat from a single, huge log is an old story to the people of Ghana.