Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
harbors; rainy seasons; monsoons and harmattans; differences in rainfall and temperatures caused by nearby mountain ranges; closed forest and its natural resources; soil erosion and mixed farming.
4.	Health:—perhaps many of the greatest changes would be seen in this field; new health centers, instructions in child care; changes in sanitation in housing and in villages; mosquito born diseases have been lessened; no longer called “white man’s grave”; formation of ministry of housing.
5.	Mathematics:—a good bit of Ghana’s story could be told in graphs showing the increases in production in various fields; increase in amount of trade; trade with various nations; distribution of population; numbers employed in agriculture and the mines; flying time from New York 25 hours and 40 minutes; numbers of people who travel by air compared with other means of transportation.
6.	Art:—native and primitive; remains of castles and forts, particularly El-mina, Cape Coast and Christians-borg; stone implements; elaborately decorated pottery; dugout canoes; mats, hats, leatherwork, gold ornaments; carved stools and figures.
B.	Skills; — the ability to find new sources of
information and the ability to summarize
what is found would be most important
in working out this unit.
C.	Attitudes, Interests, and Understandings:
1.	To appreciate and recognize the love of freedom and the means to which people will go to become free.
2.	To understand and appreciate the difficulties to be overcome in the forming of a new nation.
3.	To understand how difficult it must be for a new nation to compete with long existent nations.
4.	To develop an interest in the lives of the leaders of the new nation.
5.	To become acquainted with the historical background of the new nation.
6.	To appreciate the use made of the natural resources of this new nation and to understand the plans for the future and the hard work and difficulty the fulfillment of these plans will entail.
7.	To realize that there are still many changes to be made among the world of nations.
8.	To interest the student in the position this new nation will take in future world developments.
9.	To understand how desirous many peoples of the world are for better education and better opportunities.
10.	To realize the changes in the social customs of this nation, especially among the women.
V. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A. Things to do:
1.	Read more about the changes which have taken place since Ghana became a nation.
2.	Make a chart of “Then and Now”.
3.	Prepare a radio or TV script describing the events which led to the formation of Ghana.
4.	Make slides or a movie depicting the places of interest in Ghana.
5.	Plan an airline trip from your hometown airport to Ghana.
6.	Write to the embassy in Washington for more information.
7.	Find out whether any airline personnel in your community have ever visited Ghana and invite one to speak to your class.
8.	Collect and mount pictures of Ghana.
9.	Make a scrapbook of current newspaper and magazine articles.
10.	List all of the nations which inhabited this territory at one time or another and trace the culture remaining today.
11.	Build up a library shelf of material on Ghana.
B. Culmination:
1.	Any of the items listed above could be used as a culmination.
2.	Present a panel discussion of the Auto-biography of Kwane Nkrumah.
3.	Present a dramatization of the past and present of the Gold Coast.
4.	Give the conclusions you have reached on why this new nation was formed.
VI. LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
The study of Ghana might lead to a study of neighboring nations or to a study of other peoples in the midst of a struggle for freedom.
DO YOU REMEMBER?
Questions:
1.	On what date did Ghana achieve independence?
2.	Who is the present prime minister?
3.	What is the capital city?
4.	What territory makes up the nation of Ghana?
5.	In what zone does Ghana lie?
6.	What is the population of Ghana?
7.	Name the principal river.
8.	Which was the first European nation to visit the Gold Coast?
9.	Who was Dr. J. B. Danquah?
10.	When was the United Gold Coast Convention established?
11.	What is the name of Nkrumah’s party?
12.	Of what kind of cloth are the Ghanan’s togas made?
13.	For what is Christiansborg castle now used?
14.	Of what is Ghana the world’s largest producer?
15.	Of what mineral is it the largest exporter?
16.	How far from the Equator is Ghana?
17.	Which nation built Elmina castle?
18.	What were the Ashanti wars?
19.	After which nation is the central government of Ghana patterned?
20.	What are the main differences?
21.	What is the “harmattan”?
22. Name one lake.
23. Name the 4 main industries.
24.	About what percentage of the population is engaged in agriculture?
25.	Name three minerals which are exported.
26.	Which is the oldest and most valuable mineral export?
27.	In which city is there a cigarette factory?
28.	What changes have been made in the sale of diamonds?
29.	What new vocations have come about since contact with modern civilization?
30.	When did Ghana become a member of the United Nations?
II.	What do the following names mean to the history of Ghana?
Kwame Nkrumah	Prempeh
J. B. Danquah	Gloria Addae
Sir Garnet Wolseley	Kofi Baako
Lord Listowel
III.	Draw a map and locate the following:
Volta River
Takoradi
Ada
Lake Bosomtwi Prah River Rumasi Korforidua Sekondi Birim River
Accra
Tema
Keta
Densu River Ankobra River Cape Coast Tamale Tano River
IV.	MATCH the following:
Accra	boat building yard
Takoradi	capital of Ashanti	province
Tema	improved research	centers
Kumasi	site of new harbor
Tamale	capital of Ghana
Sekondi	harbor facilities
V.	Discussion Questions:
1.	Compare the strides made in education in Ghana with those made in other recently formed nations.
2.	Discuss the future development of natural resources, founding of new industries, trade with other nations of the world.
3.	What has been learned from lives and customs of the past that helps to build a stronger new nation?
4.	Discuss the various forms of law and law makers which include the new supreme court and the rule of the chiefs.
5.	Does a new nation have too many difficulties and problems to overcome to become successful and eventually take its rightful place in the family of nations?
Bibliography
(Note: Since Ghana did not become a nation until early in 1957 the material for this unit must be gathered from many magazines and newspaper articles. Background material will be found in the few books mentioned. All magazine articles listed are for the year 1957.)