Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
GHANA'S INDUSTRY, TRADE AND AGRICULTURE
Ghana’s territory is oblong in shape with more than 330 miles of coastline, consisting for the most part of a low, sandy shore on which the Atlantic swell breaks almost unceasingly. Here and there however, particularly in the region of Ada and Keta, the shoreline is broken by lagoons which are separated from the sea by narrow strips of soil. Behind the shoreline stretches a coastal plain, up to sixty miles in depth. It is rolling country, covered with scrub and grass, except at its western end where rainfall is heavy (up to 100 inches a year) and a forest belt comes close to the sea. The forest belt itself extends northwards along the nation’s western border and into Ashanti province for some 170 miles. It is broken up into heavily wooded hills which form steep ridges and produce valuable timber. Heavy rainfall, usually exceeding fifty inches a year, and moist, shady conditions make this area excellent cocoa-growing country. Still further north are open park-lands, with a prolonged dry season, during which the “harmattan” blows from the great deserts to the north.
Physical Characteristics Government
The government in Ghana is patterned after that of the United Kingdom, although variations exist. The nation’s constitution as it now stands provides for a single parliamentary house, the National Assembly, and for general elections once every five years. The Assembly is composed of a Speaker, who may or may not be an elected member, and 104 members. All members are elected by direct election on the basis of universal adult suffrage, and the ballot is secret. Six political parties contested the general election in July, 1956. Justice is administered by a Supreme Court and by magistrates’ courts, juvenile courts and native courts, according to the laws of Ghana. African custom law is also administered and Ghana has its own criminal code. Judges and counsel are robed as in England.
The present local government systems superseded that of indirect rule through chiefs in 1952. Valuable, though the work of the chiefs had been, it was considered essential that a more democratic structure be introduced to fit the changed circumstances of the country as an emergent self-governing democracy. At the same time it was stressed that the whole institution of chieftaincy was so deeply bound up with the life of the community that its disappearance would spell disaster.
Under the new practice the president of every local authority is a chief. A proportion of the members are selected by the chiefs and elders and the rest, the majority, are elected by popular vote. A similar arrangement has been used for some years in the municipal councils. Since the first elections were held, results have shown that the new system has not only encouraged
by Lou A. Phillips
the growth of the spirit of democracy among the people generally, but has also provided opportunities for the majority of the people to contribute to, and take an active part in, the process of government.
Ghana’s coastline has no natural harbors and for centuries only surf ports, served by fleets of surf boats, existed. In 1928, however, a new deep water harbor was opened at Takoradi but proved insufficient to handle the post-war increase in trade.
Expansion was started in 1949 and completed in 1956. Construction included five new shallow-water wharves for handling logs and sawn timber, a new double log quay, a new tanker berth and a new bauxite berth. While these extensions were under construction, further increases in trade occurred which made the need for a port in the eastern region essential. The site chosen was Tema, sixteen miles east of Accra, and work was begun in 1954. It is planned to enclose about 500 acres of deep water between two breakwaters and to include a finger quay to accommodate four ocean-going ships, a fishing harbor and ancillary works.
Ghana has no great mountain ranges. Its highest point, 2,900 feet above sea level, occurs in the range of hills along the French Togoland frontier. Only one lake, Bosomtwi, has a diameter of five miles. Rivers and streams are plentiful. Many are seasonal but the largest rivers such as the Volta, Densu, Prali and Ankobra and their tributaries flow throughout the year. The climate is tropical and except in the north there are two rainy seasons, — from March to June, and from September to November. In the north squalls occur in March and April, followed by occasional rain until August and September when the rainfall there reaches its peak.
Accra, the capital of Ghana, had a population of 135,926 at the 1948 census. Other important towns are Kumasi, the capital of Ashanti province, with 78,483 people; the seaport of Sekondi-Takoradi with 44,557 inhabitants; Cape Coast with a population of 23,346; Koforidua with 17,806 people; and Tamale with 16,164 people.
Ghana's Economy
Agriculture, fishing, mining and forestry are the four main strands of Ghana’s economy today. For despite the development of new industries, the nation’s economy still depends on the soil and the resources that lie within it. Thus agriculture alone claims an estimated seventy percent of the total male population of working age, while exports of minerals are second only in importance to cocoa.
Foodstuffs for local consumption are the main preoccupation in the north with any surpluses being sent to the south. In the south foodstuffs are grown both for subsistence and for cash sale. Various plans have recently been inaugurated to help in
fuller utilization of the land and to overcome the obstacles which lie in the way of full and balanced development.
Of the crops which are grown, cocoa is the most important. Ghana is the world’s largest producer of cocoa, with an average annual crop of 229,000 tons over the last ten years, and the bulk of the country’s revenue comes from cocoa.
Cocoa is also important for a different reason. The industry has been built up entirely by African initiative. It is a peasant industry, carried on by some 300,000 farmers with an additional labor force of 250,000 mainly seasonal workers. Plantations seldom exceed six acres in extent.
A large scale educational and publicity drive organized by the Department of Agriculture was launched in 1955, the object of which has been to increase the yield of cocoa farms. All cocoa is purchased by a Cocoa Marketing Board, established for the purpose in 1947. The Board functions through licensed buying agents, comprising in the main the firms who previously bought on their own account.
There are now a number of African licensed buyers. They deal in some cases directly with the producer, but more often they purchase from intermediaries, — factors, brokers, sub-brokers and so forth. The price to be paid by the licensed buyers is fixed by the Cocoa Board for each season in advance. The entire crop is exported overseas and sales are arranged by a marketing company subsidiary to the Cocoa Board and registered in London.
Ghana Information Service
COCOA—Ghana's main industry is supplied by the cocoa tree, one of which is examined here by members of three generations.