Page T-4
PA.IV AME RÍCA1V
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Travel, like education,
should not be a luxury
No ONE will disagree with this traditional Pan American philosophy— especially those in the field of education. Today, education and travel are more closely linked than ever. More and more teachers find international air travel not only deeply satisfying and rewarding—but necessary to the furtherance of their career.
In the past, the state of affairs was such that of all people who should travel abroad, teachers were unfortunately among the least able financially to do so. But today, for teachers who have long dreamed of world adventure and international study, these dreams are now coming true.
Pan American, the airline most responsible for low-cost travel abroad,
Among the colorful pageants of Whitehall are the famous Life Guard Regiments.
has added another great dimension to low-fare transportation: Economy class service! New Economy class ThriftFarest are 20 % less than tourist-class to Europe; and of course, as so many teachers do, you can take full advantage of Pan Am’s World-Wide Plan, Go Now—Pay Later . . . only 10% down, and up to 20 months to
pay the rest. For example: New York-London, round trip, is $454 (only $46 down); New York-Paris, round trip, is $490 (only $50 down).
Pan American opens new doors to 82 lands on 6 continents—for little more than the price of an ordinary vacation at home. As quickly as tomorrow you can discover Paris. Just a few hours by Flying Clipper* from home, London’s Big Ben can toll you welcome.
A good night’s sleep away from the U. S., time stands still for history in the timeless streets of Rome. Here is the threshold of a new exciting life. New professional opportunities for study and research. Greater cultural accumulations and a priceless, fresh, firsthand approach to your teaching. You have only to name your new horizon; Pan American can fly you there in hours.
Pan American is the airline that has been a favorite of teachers for years. Our special Educational Group Tours are among the many reasons why.
For example there is the Lafayette College Middle East Seminar: 6 weeks: $1499. Greece, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Israel, Cyprus, Turkey; and return to the U.S.A. Or, continue (at additional cost) around Africa, or Russia and Scandinavia or Continental Europe. Offering 6 academic credits.
Or the Windsor Tour: 55 days. $1366. Motor-rail tour of England, Holland, Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, Monaco, France.
And there are dozens of others to choose from, going everywhere in the world (many offering academic credits)—for every budget in every field of interest.
Here is the world you want—the
treasures of travel available for the fewest dollars. And the new Thrift Fares aboard Pan American’s Flying Clippers pamper your budget; complimentary refreshments served at your seat. . . plus the regular tourist-class luggage allowance of 44 pounds. Every mile of your trip is flown and
This is the beautiful Joan of Arc statue in Paris, near the Champs Eiysees.
serviced by crews trained to the most exacting standards in the world, aboard America’s fastest airliners— the famous radar-equipped “Super-7” Clippers, holders of 15 transatlantic speed records.
Now is the time for wide-awake dreamers to act! Write for the FREE 1958 edition of “Adventures in Education,” a scholar’s guide to study and travel abroad. You will also receive a free trial copy of “Pan American World Airways Teacher.” Address: Mr. George Gardner, Educational Director, P. O. Box 1908, New York 17, N. Y.
*TRADE- MAR K, REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
*}*EFFECTIVE APRIL 1, SUBJECT TO GOVERNMENT APPROVALS
A.ME RICA.IV
WORLD’S MOST EXPERIENCED AIRLINE