Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO GHANA
by George Gardner
In planning a flying trip to Ghana, whether real or imaginary, we would do well to start by locating this new nation, and its capital Accra on a map or a globe of the world.
The African continent has a bulge projecting out into the Atlantic — Ghana is on the southerly coast line of this bulge. Looking at the globe, you can see how much Atlantic Ocean lies between New York City and Accra. The distance on the Great Circle arc is about 5,000 miles.
Even this great distance is within the capabilities of the flying Clippers — it would be possible, technically, to fly the route direct and non-stop. But it is not commercially feasible to do so because (1) the great quantity of fuel that would have to be carried would sharply reduce the “payload” of passengers, mail and cargo that could be put aboard and (2) patronage can be increased if there is a European city on the route.
So let’s turn to the time table, and see what route has been established for the journey from the United States to Ghana.
The route of the Flying Clippers to Ghana is via Lisbon (see map). The schedule calls for two flights weekly from New York non-stop to Lisbon, and then, after re-fueling another non-stop flight to Accra. An additional weekly schedule provides “local” service, going from New York to Santa Maria in the Azores, Lisbon, Dakar in French West Africa and Monrovia in Liberia and Accra.
The express service proceeds beyond Accra to Leopoldville and Johannesburg; the local service terminates at Accra. Leaving New York City at 4:30 Sunday afternoon on the express schedule, we’ll be in Lisbon at eight o’clock next morning, in Accra at six o’clock Sunday evening. Allowing for five hours difference in time, we will have been
enroute about 2O14 hours. Flying on schedule with various stops en route, we’d be about 32 hours on our way.
That’s what we may anticipate in 1958. Later, with Jet Clippers, the time of passage will be still less.
Actually, we need more time to get ready than will be needed to make the flight.
First of all, we’ll make reservations for our flight. This is a very simple matter — a visit to the ticket office, or the office of a travel agent, will take care of that, and it may be done by letter or by a telephone call.
Next, we must think of governmental requirements. A passport and visa are required for travel to Ghana. The passport is obtained from our own State Department. It is evidence of citizenship, that our own government has no objection to our traveling abroad, and that we are entitled to recognition as American citizens by U.S. representatives in other countries. The visa is obtained from a representative of the British Commonwealth (of which the independent nation of Ghana is a member). It is a notation in the passport that we intend to visit Ghana, and have so advised one of its diplomatic or consular representatives in the United States.
Application for the passport should be made to the State Department in Washington, or to one of the branch offices in other cities, a month to six weeks in advance. After the passport has been issued, it then is taken to a British consul for the visa.
In addition, there are health requirements to be observed in connection with travel to Ghana, as is the case generally in international travel. For Ghana, we need certificates showing that we have valid small pox and Yellow Fever inoculations.
Another item of preparation is wardrobe. Ghana is a tropical country, within 500
miles of the equator, so light weight summer clothing is wanted. Loose fitting sports attire will be useful, washable fabric dresses for girls, light weight slacks and sports shirts for boys.
But the most important item of preparation, perhaps, is learning as much as possible about the nation of Ghana before we go there. This will make the process of getting-acquainted, and of further learning on the scene, much easier and pleasant.
Ghana is a new nation, formerly a British colony called the Gold Coast, which attained independence and adopted its new name on March 6th, 1957. (The “new” name actually has come out of the nation’s history and tradition.)
We get this preliminary knowledge by reading, through pictures and movies, and if possible by talking to people who have lived in Ghana (or the Gold Coast) or have visited there.
A convenient way to do it is through the study unit plan presented in the following pages.
There is so much to be learned that we still are in the midst of our studies when the time comes for our trip, but that’s all right, because now we can continue them in Ghana itself, and everything we see and hear will be more meaningful.
The flight itself will be an important part of the experience, even if it is taken only in imagination.
It begins at the new International Airport of New York City — also called Idle-wild. This huge airport, on Long Island, in the southeastern part of New York City, is a center for international travel to the entire world, providing facilities for dozens of air lines and hundreds of aircraft. In addition to the people and equipment for dispatching, receiving and controlling the movements of the airplanes, the airport has restaurants, stores, banks, a hotel, a chapel, in short so complete an array of conveniences for living that part of it is called Terminal City.
We check in at the counter early, with tickets, passports and other documents, and to check our baggage. This doesn’t require so very much time for the individual passenger, but the air line must have the information for all passengers an hour or so in advance, so that the aircraft documents may be prepared.
So we have a little time to look around before departure, to visit the shops, or just to see people in the lobby who have recently arrived from the other side of the world, or who are preparing to go there.
There is so much to see that the time goes quickly.
Something is being announced on the public address system right now:
“Flight 150 to Lisbon and Accra, now loading at Gate 8.”
Yes, that’s our flight, and the beginning of an adventure in learning.