Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Ghana Information Service
SCHOOLBOY—He attends the Government School in Accra.
Up to March, 1955, the Corporation had invested nearly one million pounds sterling in existing and new projects. At first this Corporation functioned virtually as a loans board to small local ventures, but recently it has concentrated on the development of industries under the management of subsidiary companies. The enterprises concerned are engaged in manufacture of furniture, jewelry, sectional timber houses, sawn lumber, bakery products, soap and matches. Among the new projects are a company manufacturing bricks and tiles, an oil mill for refined edible oils, a plant for tire servicing and remoulding and a boot and shoe factory.
Ghana possesses several hotels of varying degrees of comfort and the latest addition to these is a 100-bedroom luxury hotel in Accra which has vastly improved the facilities available to visiting businessmen and tourists.
Recognizing that industries without managers and technicians are useless, considerable attention has been given in recent years to the training of men and women to these new skills, and technical institutes are opening in the bigger towns. As a basic feature of its policy of industrialization, the Government has repeatedly emphasized its desire to attract foreign capital for large-scale industrial development, and is prepared to give all possible assistance to overseas businessmen interested in exploring the potentialities of the country and setting up new industries.
The Industries Division of the Ministry of Trade and Labor is responsible for providing assistance to overseas investors interested in industrial development and is available to give advice regarding suitable factory sites, supplies of power and water, and other facilities having a direct bearing on the establishment of new industries.
To assist and promote the development of new industries important relief is given
to “pioneer companies”, that is, companies formed to carry on an industry which has been declared a “pioneer industry”. All new industrial enterprises can apply for this relief and the maximum concession given is a tax holiday on profits for five years. In certain cases new industries may be granted relief from import duties on specified raw materials.
Mining
The fact that exports of gold, manganese, diamonds and bauxite are second only in value to cocoa exports, is an indication of the importance of mining to the national economy.
Of the four types of mining, gold mining is the oldest. Gold was almost certainly the country’s first export and it is still the most valuable mineral export.
Approximately 25,000 Africans and 800 Europeans are employed in gold mines. In recent years, however, the mining companies have found it increasingly difficult to meet the continually rising costs while the international price of gold has remained fixed. Consequently, to preserve one of the country’s major industries, special government measures were announced in 1956. These included a grant to the low-grade ore mines and proposals to enable all miners to benefit to the fullest extent from taxation relief.
Commercial production of diamonds, found in eastern and western regions, dates from 1920. European companies are engaged in the business but production by African diggers has increased during recent years, at times accounting for over 50% of total output.
Industrial diamonds account for about 75 percent of total production and are characterized by their very small size. Until the middle of 1954 all exports were dispatched to London for disposal, but during that year an official diamond market was opened in Accra which disposes of all diamonds obtained by African diggers. Approximately 4,000 Africans and 50 Europeans are employed by diamond mining companies. There are approximately 12,000 Africans in the local industry.
Manganese is vital to the manufacture of alloys, especially in the steel industry, and Ghana is a considerable producer of manganese with exports averaging 540,000 tons a year. Production began in 1916 and is practically all by the African Manganese Co. Ltd. whose mine at Nsuta near Tarkwa is the largest in the world.
The ore is high grade, the bulk consisting of metallurgical grades although there is a valuable output of battery and chemical ore. Exports reach a wide market, supplying the needs of the parent company’s ferro-alloy plants in the United States, Canada and Norway, as well as independent consumers in the United Kingdom and Europe.
In recent years the United Kingdom has received just over one quarter of the country’s output which supplies about half the United Kingdom’s total manganese imports. There are also large deposits of bauxite which are used for the manufacture of aluminum. Supplies have been estimated
at over 200 million tons. At present only one deposit at Kanayerebo in the western province is being mined for export to the United Kingdom.
Volta River Project
Of all the proposed industrial projects of Ghana, the most far-reaching is the proposed Volta River Project. This undertaking would not only reduce the country’s dependence on the cocoa crop as the main source of its revenue but could well usher in a great new era of industrial prosperity.
The project involves building a dam and hydro-electric power station at Ajena on the Volta River which would provide electricity for a large-scale aluminum industry and other purposes. Local bauxite from a vast but hitherto untapped deposit 200 miles away could be used to feed an aluminum smelter which would aim at an eventual annual output of 210,000 tons.
At the same time, the huge artificial lake of over 3,000 square miles which would be formed, would open up new possibilities for fisheries and inland water transport, and could provide water for irrigation on the Accra plains. If the Volta River project materialized the new harbor at Tema could be extended to handle the import of raw materials for the smelter and the export of aluminum.
The timber industry in Ghana has not only increased its output very substantially during and since the war, but also has modernized its production methods and equipment. Today the industry is still expanding and the processing of timber, the main manufacturing industry in Ghana, is carried on in many parts of the country.
With an output of sawn timber which is expected to continue rising, this is a field which offers great possibilities in the training of skilled artisans and operatives not only in the sawmills but also in the factories and workshops.
Several light industries are now in operation. One of the most successful of these is a cigarette factory in Takoradi which was started in 1954 and now supplies all areas. The factory is equipped with the
Ghana Information Service
DAY NURSERY—While their mothers are at work these youngsters get acquainted with the automotive age.