Page T-2
E>/Vt%T AMERICAIV
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1958, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
PAN AMERICAN TESTING ELECTRONIC NAVIGATOR
A new electronic air navigation system, which for the first time instantaneously gives the pilot his true course and ground speed over land or sea, is being evaluated by Pan American World Airways, Inc. in cooperation with the Air Transport Association and the United States Air Force.
The device, called RADAN, developed by General Precision Laboratory, will be used on all of Pan American’s 44 jet airliners, the first of which will be delivered in 1958.
The system weighs only 89 pounds. It operates independently of any ground-based or celestial aids. It gives accurate, continuous data to navigate the aircraft in any kind of weather and over any terrain, including water, snow and ice. Obtaining the basic information of ground speed and drift angle, and combining it with heading from the compass will make possible for the first time in navigational history accurate long range aerial navigation independent of ground or celestial aids.
The Pan American DC-7C equipped with this self-contained navigation system represents a milestone in aviation. It is the first civil aircraft to have flown with it in regularly scheduled passenger service.
The device guides a plane unerringly on the course chosen, without reference to ground aids. It allows instant compensation for wind. It shows the pilot exactly how many ground miles he has traveled by means of a mileometer like that on automobiles.
In the tests being conducted by a Pan American DC-7C across the Atlantic the device has proved to be extremely accurate. The plane has so far made eighteen transatlantic crossings.
The principle of the device, which has four probing fingers of radar directed toward the ground is based on an effect discovered in 1843 by an Austrian scientist, Christian Doppler, who found that there was a relationship between the speed of a moving object and the sound it generated as it approached a listener.
The same principle is used by this
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Doppler device, called RADAN, for Radar Doppler Automatic Navigator.
RADAN uses extremely high frequency radio waves instead of sound, and translates them into accurate aircraft positioning information. With the four radar fingers, the plane might almost be riding a railroad track laid across the oceans. The slightest shift in any direction is instantaneously detected, and the true ground speed and drift is always available to the pilot.
The Doppler measurements fed through a computer to an automatic pilot will keep the plane on course without manual help.
Since the early days of air navigation dead reckoning has been a basic method. As all aviators know, heading, drift and ground speed are the basic elements required for dead reckoning. Airplanes involved in long distance flights have utilized dead reckoning navigation in one form or another.
Lindbergh, in his historic flight to Paris, navigated in this fashion. His flight was made possible largely due to the then new earth inductor compass. Ground speed and drift angle information was established by a combination of meteorological forecast observations, of positions made good, and pilot intuition.
Since Lindbergh’s flight much has been done to improve the obtaining of position fixes by reference to ground radio aids. In some cases, where position fixes were not obtainable it became necessary to home on known ground radio stations.
In the early 1930s Pan American established the use of aeronautical Radio Direction Finding in the Caribbean and Pacific areas. Later, the four-course aural loop range and the four-course Adcock visual-aural range, Automatic Radio Compass, Loran, VOR, and TACAN were developed
and their use established. All of these systems provided either a line-of-position or a geographical location of the aircraft within the coverage area of the ground stations.
GPL Doppler navigation equipment has been in operational use since 1954 in military aircraft and has proven its value in hundreds of installations. Until recently military security has not permitted its application to airline and civil use; however, the device has now been declassified.
PAN AM AT BRUSSELS FAIR
One of the most unusual exhibits at the Brussels World’s Fair next year will be a theater inside an inflated ball 52 feet in diameter.
Built on the principle used in the inflated radar domes on America’s northernmost defense perimeter, the world ball will house the exhibit of Pan American World Airways.
Inside, audiences of 200 will find a universe depicted on the roof of the ball in the same manner as in New York’s Hayden Planetarium. A deep red sunset will fade into night, a blue sky and scudding white clouds. The clouds fade, leaving a star-filled sky — and then the audience will be shown a special film on how high-speed jet travel will shrink the world.
The film will take the audience from Magellan’s historic three-year trip of discovery around the world, through the voyages of the later Clipper sailing ships from which Pan American’s Clippers derive their names, to round-the-world air travel as it will be in 1959 — when the airline will be the first to operate American-built jets on international routes. A round-the-world trip then will take only 40 hours flying time.
AIR AGE EDUCATION INSTITUTE—Teachers and administrators from public schools in Queens Borough, New York City, assemble at New York International Airport to board a Pan American World Airways Clipper for a flight over New York City. Prior to the flight they had participated in an institute in which they had been briefed on aviation and its place in the classroom. Air Age Education Institutes in a continuing program are offered by the Education Committee of the National Air Transport Coordinating Committee.