Page 11
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
Nkrumah — The Autobiography of Kwame Nkrumah — Nelson
Wright — Black Power — Harper
Redmayne — Gold Coast to Ghana —
Murray
Magazine Articles
Scholastic — March 1, March 22, April 26
Christian Century — February 20, March 20, April 3, April 10, September 18
Negro History Bulletin — January, March, May, October, November
America — March 2, April 13 New Republic — March 18, April 8 Saturday Review of Literature — April 27 Reporter — March 21, May 2 United Nations Review — March, April United States News — March 8, March 15 Newsweek — March 11, September 2 Life — March 11, March 18, April 12 Foreign Policy Bulletin — March 15
Annals of American Academy of Political and Social Science — March
New Yorker — November 23 Library Journal — November 15
U.S. Department of State Bulletin 37 — March 25, July 15
Time —March 18, September 2, September 30, October 7, October 14
School and Society — May 25 Travel — October
New York Times Magazine Section —
June 16
World Book Encyclopedia — 1957 Annual Supplement
Pan American World Airways Teacher — Nov.-Dec. 1950
For further information write:
Ghana Embassy — 2139 R Street — Washington, D.C.
VOCABULARY
aboriginal	primitive
accelerate	to act or move quickly
adequate	suitable, sufficient
alloys	combinations of 2 or more metals
amenities	extra necessities, pleasantnesses
ancillary	auxiliary, subordinate
animation	liveliness
authenticated	made valid, made authoritative
bauxite	principal source of metal aluminum
berth	a bunk or bed in a vessel or sleeping car
brokers	those who buy and sell for others for commission
cannas	red or yellow flowers, tropical plant
cassava	tropical shrubs or herbs
chieftaincy	rank of a leader
compressed	flattened, reduced
consecrated	kept sacred, dedicated
crenelated	decorated, notched
edible	fit to eat
emergence	outgrowth
emergent	urgent, unexpectedly
ethnically	racially
exceed	to go beyond, surpass
exhilarating	cheering, stimulating
exotic	foreign, strange
external	outside
factors	commission merchants
ferro-concrete	concrete reinforced by iron or steel bars
fetish	object of devotion, blind acceptance
grandeur	impresses
groundnuts	wild beans
harmattan	dry wind on West coast of Africa, parches skin and withers vegetation
hinterland	land behind seacoast or river shore
immunization	protection from infection
initiative	ability for independent action
intermediaries	parties who come between
lagoons	bodies of shallow, still water
legitimate	lawful, genuine
lighters	barge like vessels
linguistic	adept in languages
mandates	charges of other nations
manganese	metallic element used in making glass and paints
mechanization	mechanical order
metallurgical	extracting metals from ores
millet	cereal
penetration	entering into
plebiscite	an expression of popular will by a vote
potentialities	possibilities, developments
preoccupation	engrossed, absorbed
prodigious	enormous, immense
promontory	a high point of land extending into the sea
protectorate	country or region under protection of another
provocative	exciting anger, offending
quay	wharf where vessels unload
rectilinear	straight
savannah	treeless plain
shea	large tree of star apple family growing only in Western tropical Africa and yielding shea-butter
squalls	sudden bursts of winds
staple	a principal product
subsidiary	supplementary, auxiliary
subsistence	support
suffrage	privilege of voting
superseded	replaced, took the place of
togas	large outer robes such as worn by the Romans
trawler	vessel used for dragging
utilization	use for improvement
vanguard	advance
veneers	thin layers of choice wood
yams	variety of sweet potatoes
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
GHANA
LOCATION: Ghana lies on the West Coast of Africa and it is surrounded by French West Africa on its North, East and West borders, and by the Gulf of Guinea to the South. Accra, the capital, is 6678 airmiles from New York and 3000 airmiles from Johannesburg.
CHARACTERISTICS: A very interesting combination of modern and old Africa can be found within Ghana’s boundaries. The people are extremely friendly and sincerely interested in welcoming foreign visitors. Excellent roads from the modern capital, Accra, to Ashanti, ancient African Nation with an extremely interesting history, and to the Northern Territories where African and Moslem cultures mixed to form a fascinating pattern of contrast.
POPULATION: Approximately 4,691,000. Ethnically the population represents a wide variety of peoples, ranging from the Akans in the coastal area and Ashanti, to the Ga — Adagmes and Ewes of the South-East and the Mamprusi and Dagarti of the Northern Territories.
CAPITAL: Accra, population about 150,000.
GOVERNMENT: Formerly a British Colony, Ghana attained Independence on March 6th, 1957.
HOW TO GET THERE: By Pan American Clipper. 20 hours from New York, elapsed time.
The information presented above is from the PAA ivorld travel guide book “Neiv Horizons”. (1958 edition).
“New Horizons” now is available in a hard cover edition, published for PAA at $1.00 by Simon and Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.