16
Pak Amer îcak
World Airways Teacher
officer from the Ministry of Education and Dr. Qureshi’s family.
I had my introduction to a Pakistan sweetmeat which looks like a ball of raw white dough the size of a small orange. Dr. Qureshi explained that there is an etiquette involved in eating it and this consists of popping it into the mouth whole then chewing. I followed directions, and it is fortunate that I did, for it was filled with a sweet liquid—which would have squirted all over the place if I had bitten into the ball. I shall not attempt to describe the taste, but I’ll confess I did not go for seconds.
LEBANON
PA 1 (f)
Lv. Karachi, Pakistan. ,67^°E	3:15 We
Arr. Beirut, Lebanon. .. .30°E	10:00
(t) Douglas Super-6 Clipper
This is one of the longest flights on the RTW journey—it is comparable to a nonstop flight from coast to coast in the U.S. The Clipper follows a course marked by air navigation aids, and is led by them over the trackless deserts of Iran and Arabia. Originally, the flight was accomplished by use of dead reckoning and celestial navigation, just as the oceans are flown, but now the course is marked by radio aids. My seat mate was an oil man, and he passed a lot of his time watching the terrain below, for it is not all level sand, and there are ranges of hills and low mountains the configuration of which would have meaning to an oil geologist. A lot of oil is coming out of the ground in the Middle East, and the oil men are convinced there is plenty more to be found.
Approaching Beirut we passed over Damascus, and our attention was drawn to it by the Captain who reminded us that Damascus is said to be the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. It is located in a large and famous oasis, and from the air you can see very plainly the line of demarcation between the area which is supplied with water and is green, and the yellow-brown sand of the desert.
We land at Kahldi Airport, and the welcoming committee of one this time was District Traffic Manager George Wilson. But Wilson left for Istanbul on the airplane which had brought me in, so my mentor for the next few days was his assistant, Pete Cornwall. I was assisted also by Dr. Park Beck, formerly of PAA, now a member of the faculty of the City College of New York, and this year a visiting professor at the American University of Beirut.
Park took me to call on Dr. Stephen Penrose, president of AUB, Dr. Habib Kurani, chairman of the university’s education department and director of its summer session, and other AUB faculty members. He took me to a production of Bernard Shaw’s play, “You Never Can Tell” by the college dramatic society, which was practically on a professional level, and certainly equal to any college dramatic effort in the United States, and we wound up our cultural exploration by a visit to a couple of Beirut night clubs which feature the Middle East’s justly famous “belly dancing.”
Beirut certainly offers exceptional opportunities as a base of operations for a summer of study and travel in the Middle East, and in fact the American University of Beirut has had substantial experience in supplying
facilities for that very purpose. At least two expeditions are forming right now to base at AUB, for study there, supplemented by travel to easily accessible places nearby, like Jerusalem, Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, Basra and others.
* * *
AUB this summer will be the locale of a summer conference on teaching the social studies, under sponsorship of UNESCO. AUB has its own regular summer session, the usual enrollment being 500 to 600. It is primarily for Lebanese students, and the university authorities limit enrollment of American students to about 100. But if enrollment of students from abroad is restricted in number, it is considered to be a very important part of the summer session—in order to afford opportunity for contact and exchange of views. Similarly in the regular session with about 3200 students, the authorities like to have students from America and other countries, but limit the number accepted even more stringently and accept only college juniors and seniors, or graduate students.
ROME, PARIS, LONDON and NEW YORK
	PA 119		
Lv. Beirut, Lebanon		30°E	9:30	Sa
Arr. Rome, Italy		. 15°E	14:30	
	PA 115		
Lv. Rome, Italy		. 15°E	15:30	Tu
Arr. Paris, France		. 15°E	19:00	
		BEA	
Lv. Paris, France		. .15°E		
Arr. London, England. . .	. . 0°		
	PA 101		
Lv. London, England. . . .	. 0°	18:15	Sa
Arr. New York, U.S.A..	.EST	8:25	Su
As space is running out	, I shall	omit com-	
ments on my visits in	Rome,	Paris :	and
London. However, if you have stayed with me this long, you might as well stick for a few more paragraphs of
OBSERVATIONS
My reference books were PAA’s own travel guide, “New Horizons” and James A. Michener’s collection of interviews and essays. “The Voice of Asia”. In the latter, the author concludes each section on an Asiatic country with a chapter of fact and comment headed, “Observations”, a device I have appropriated for use here. (Thanks J.A.M.).
First, an observation is so basic to educational travel, or to business, tourist or any kind of travel, that it may seem an unneeded comment, but I had to keep reminding myself, and I think it merits a paragraph: Every new country entered is different from all that have been visited before. Customs requirements range from practically free entry to thorough examination. In some places extensive tipping is customary and one has to conform to be comfortable—in others the same practice would be overdoing things and you will be another, “Crazy American”. Customs and courtesies vary. In Japan they bow deeply and audibly suck in breath—in India and Pakistan they salute from the middle of the forehead and say, “Salaam, Sahib”. Some shops in some countries stick to fixed prices—others have an asking price two or three times the price desired and expected, and are disappointed if you do not bargain. These and countless
other unfamiliar practices often complicated by the language barrier, can breed confusion and even tension. For me, the most troublesome problem is whom to tip and how much.
Travel guide books explain all these things and advance study will help—but in the final analysis you have to learn by experience. The learning process is aided and smoothed by the use of patience, tact and courtesy and by asking frankly for guidance. Above all, it is necessary to remain relaxed. If you find you have tipped too little, too much, at the wrong time or have refrained at the wrong time, write it off as experience and be happy that you’ll know better next time. But relax. Brooding over your troubles at customs, or an outrageous price paid in a bazaar can rob your trip of much of its pleasure.
* * *
In Pakistan, the Director of Education, Dr. Qureshi, inquired about teaching materials which PAA supplies to schools in the U.S. He said he’d like to have them for schools in Pakistan, and said Pakistan would be willing to pay for them. I explained that we make no charge, and I promised to send samples and to supply in quantity whatever materials would have application. “Oh, yes”, he said, “America cannot be isolationist any more”. To me the incident demonstrated several things: that in Pakistan people believe just what he said—that we cannot go back to isolationism, even if we want to, that Pakistan has a genuine, friendly interest in the U.S., and wants to learn more about us, and that Pakistani take it as a matter of course that we will assist in many ways, of which PAA materials for teachers is just one small example.
* * *
The essence of my quick survey is this: Our educational friends around the world will welcome visits by us—in groups large and small, and as individuals. They will help make arrangements, and will look forward to the benefits their own students and teachers will derive from our visits. They hope to visit us in return, and in similar fashion, as soon as they can overcome the obstacles that exist, and which are mainly financial, especially restrictions on taking money out of the various countries.
For our visits, in order to be helpful, they want to know of our plans well in advance, and this means months in advance in the case of plans for special sessions, lectures or workshops—weeks in advance if it is simply desired that our groups meet people and talk to them.
They very reasonably want the actuality to match closely with the advance request. In other words, if they set up a course or workshop they have a right to expect that the people who arrive are seriously interested in a lecture course or workshop. If arrangements are set up for interviews or receptions, they want to be sure that the people arriving will be of the type expected, and that they will actually be there at the appointed time (delays because of weather and other unavoidable causes always being excepted, of course). This comment was made to me several times, and therefore I set it down here—there must have been cases in the past when advance planning for tours was imperfect in this respect.