Pam Amer/cam
World Airways Teacher	15
AROUND THE WORLD EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
(Continued on page 2)
enormous suites, huge public rooms and an atmosphere of colonial India. About the same could be said of the newer Imperial Hotel in New Delhi. At both, the dining rooms offer an Indian and a European menu. I selected the Indian menu for one luncheon —curry of lamb and rice, of course. The captain of waiters was careful to get confirmation that I really wanted it. And it really was hot. Delicious, and I enjoyed it, but after eating about half of the generous serving and downing six glasses of water to keep the blaze under control, I gave up and went on to an Indian dessert of sweet pastry. Only later did I learn that water does not put out the blaze of curry, but actually aggravates it.
* * *
My appointments were arranged by PAA Traffic Manager Gerry Gerold, and I’ll tell you how you keep an appointment with the Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Education, Prof. Humayan Kabir.
The PAA driver takes you to the Secretariat—leaving early so he can show you the Gate of India, Pandit Nehru’s house, other public buildings, and the preparation for India’s Independence Day on January 26, these preparations being stands, seating arrangements and loud speakers for a day-dong ceremony which would compare with Inauguration Day in Washington, D. C.
At the Secretariat, the PAA driver parks the car and escorts you to an office of Inquiry. There you are directed to the office desired and assigned a guide. The guide delivers you to a guard in splendid Oriental uniform who takes your card, then returns and seats you in a secretary’s office to wait until a caller already in the office has finished. After a brief wait—actually until the exact time of the appointment, you are invited to enter. Then comes brief, cordial and business-like exchanges of information and an early departure
It is much like making a call at the Department of Commerce in Washington, or perhaps the Pentagon—even to the overwhelming size and complexity of the building. And yet it is completely different, too, because of the Oriental architecture of the building, with its open air effect, the unfamiliar uniforms, the music of the strange languages and the multiplicity of attendants.
I had a Sunday for sightseeing in India and elected to use it for an automobile trip to Agra to see the Taj Mahal. It was as beautiful as I’d been led to expect, but I shall not try to set down a description. That’s been done many times by experts in such writing, and you’ve read of it time and again, I’m sure.
Instead, I’ll tell you of the cross-country I trip with the Sikh owner-driver, Roger.
A handsome rascal, with curly black beard and a brilliant red turban, Rog gave us a quick description of the Sikhs: “We are not shearing the hair and we are wearing the beard. We were not drinking and smoking. Now we are drinking.” However, Rog was not drinking during our trip and I
gathered he meant only that some Sikhs drink now sometimes, where in the past, no Sikh drank ever.
A very skillful driver, Rog gave quarters to nothing on the road with the single exception of an American built automobile which approached us from the opposite direction when we were about SO miles along our way. He moved over perhaps three feet more than absolutely necessary for that passing. Pedestrians, goat herders, pig drivers, and wayfarers on bicycles were expected to jump aside. Camels and bullock carts couldn’t jump, of course, so he skimmed by them with three inches of light between our fender and the camel or bullock.
My companions were a PAA Flight Engineer, a United Nations staff member and a U.S. Army nurse from Japan—all of them bent on getting photographs. I went along for the ride.
Our first stop for photography was at a well. It was a deep open well, concrete lined and with an endless chain carrying buckets. The chain was geared into a turntable which in turn was harnessed to a patient, plodding, blind-folded camel, who disdainfully marched in his circle, nose in the air, lifting his feet and setting them down with care and never breaking his slow steady pace. With no prodding, or even supervision, the water spilled into a tank and overflowed into an irrigation ditch to water the fields.
We stopped again at another well—this one bullock-powered. In the power thrust, the bullocks charged down an incline into an excavation, pulling a rope which led over a pulley and down into the well to a skin bucket. When the skin emerged at the top, an attendant dumped it into a tank from which it ran into a ditch, while the bullock driver urged his team back up the incline to the starting point—to fetch another pail of water.
We saw also the ancient type of water hole which is simply a twenty to forty foot diameter hole in the ground to catch rain water. Such a mud-bottomed reservoir serves a community for drinking, laundering, wading, swimming and water for the household. It serves also to spread disease germs and modern India is replacing such water holes with deep wells as rapidly as the work can be accomplished.
PAKISTAN
PA 5 (t)
Lv. Delhi, India.........82j^°E	5:30
Arr. Karachi, Pakistan. .67J^°E	7:30
(f) Douglas Super-6 Clipper
My mentor at Karachi was Traffic Manager McSweyn Shattuck, who met me at Drigh Road Airport. My appointments schedule had been drawn up and commitments obtained by Shattuck with the aid of Derrik Braganza, Pakistan Sales Supervisor in Karachi, in a collaboration which is typical of PAA stations around the world. Such an office normally is headed up by a partnership consisting of a manager who has gone out from the U.S. (in some of the larger offices, two or three Americans), and an assistant who is a national of the country and who has made his way up the career ladder as a PAA employee in his own country. Then there is a locally engaged staff which handles the details of sales and service and from which future supervisors will
be developed. A similar pattern is followed in other departments like operations and maintenance.
It struck me as a perfect example of international understanding and cooperation in business organization. Of course, PAA didn’t invent the technique, since it is a normal way of setting up a business venture abroad. But I think we can take credit for adding some refinements. In training methods especially, I think we have done some pioneering. I attended a training session at the Karachi Traffic and Sales Office and spoke to the group. In that same session other visitors were a PAA captain who was in town for a special mission and a Civil Aeronautics Administration inspector. Our talks were simply frosting on the cake, because the training program itself is a carefully worked out syllabus for developing attitudes, as well as instructing in methods and procedures and we guest speakers simply contributed information about our individual work assignments.
I hope our future educational travelers may have an opportunity to see how international understanding is served by the organization of business staffs abroad with recruits from the local residents.
^
Two high spots of my visit to Karachi must be mentioned.
The first was an interview with the Vice Chancellor of the University of Karachi— Prof. ABA Haleem. I called at Dr. Ha-leem’s comfortable residence on the campus and sat with him at a tea table along with two representatives of the Students’ Union and our conversation ranged from football in U.S. universities and cricket at the University of Karachi, also basketball in both, to scholarship opportunities for Pakistani students in America. Pakistan has about 700 college students studying abroad during this school term—300 in the United Kingdom and 400 in the U.S. The Pakistan government itself supports 200 of these students on scholarships and will send more as funds become available. Many of the others of course, have grants or scholarships in the Fullbright, State Department, Ford, Rockefeller and other exchange programs.
The University of Karachi offers a graduate program itself and supervises the curricula of affiliated colleges in various parts of the city. The two student representatives took me to one of the other locations to meet other members of their cabinet. They showed me through their library and their zoology museum, of which they are justly proud and which, like all other facilities, are very new since the University was founded since the establishment of the new nation of Pakistan.
One of the cabinet members is a remarkable youth of 16 who holds a B.S. degree and is pursuing graduate studies in zoology.
The other high spot was an afternoon tea at the home of the Director of Education, Dr. Ishtiag Husain Qureshi. The guests included Dr. Charles F. Phillips, President of Bates College in Maine—on a lecture tour in the Orient, and Mrs. Phillips, the Cultural Attache from the U.S. Embassy, the Embassy officer in charge of student exchanges—with their wives, an information