Pam Awfrícam
2	World Airways Teacher
Pah AmericaIV World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 19 54, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
ducted me to the university campus and Dr. Takikawa’s office.
Introductions were made and all bowed graciously to each other. Then we sat down at a conference table, where we were joined by the Secretary of the University and a charming Japanese lady, who explained that it would be her pleasure to interpret, although she mistrusted her knowledge of English. I assured her that her command of the English language was outstanding (which it was).
At this point all exchanged “name cards.” Then a servant appeared with tea. I have read that strict observance of the formalities of ceremonial tea calls for all conversation to cease while the tea is being sipped. In this case, however, we were less formal, and continued to pass questions and answers through the interpreter.
Dr. Takikawa was entirely sympathetic and urged me to influence teachers and students to visit the national universities (as distinguished from the private or missionary colleges). For undiluted exposure to Japanese learning, customs and way of life, I should think a national university would best represent these things. The private college possibly would excel in interpretation by Americans on the faculties who have lived for years in Japan and know the country thoroughly. It all depends upon what you want.
HONG KONG
PA 5 (t)
Lv. Tokyo, Japan........135°E	1:00
Arr. Hong Kong..........126°E	8:45
(t) Douglas DC6B Super Clipper
Completing the overnight flight from Tokyo, we were over Hong Kong about an hour after sunrise. Although visibility was good, the Captain announced that he intended to follow the pattern of the instrument flight approach. He had so decided earlier when it appeared that visibility conditions would necessitate a let-down procedure. Actually, the cloud cover had cleared away when we arrived in the vicinity, but he elected to follow the instrument approach pattern anyway. Both flight and ground crews welcome such opportunities to rehearse these operating procedures. For the passengers, it provided a much better opportunity than average to see the fabulous harbor of Hong Kong—rimmed by steep and rocky hills with Kowloon on the mainland nestled at the bases of the hills and with the island of Hong Kong (or Victoria) rising out of the middle of the bay.
The airport is Kai Tak, held during World War II along with all of Hong Kong
—by Japanese forces. District Traffic Manager Gerry O’Donnell was there to meet me, and drive me to the fantastic old Peninsula Hotel in Kowloon, with its enormous guest rooms and their 15-foot ceilings and its international lobby where citizens from all over the world sit at the hundred-odd tables to talk and sip coffee— or cocktails and highballs.
Sunday afternoon I drove out past Kowloon to the suburbs—New Territories—only a few miles from the boundary of Communist China. I had been invited to tea with Lim Hoy Lan, headmaster of the Tak Yan School for Chinese boys, and a past president of the Hong Kong Teachers Association. We discussed means of having American teachers who go to Hong Kong meet and visit the teachers who are members of his association, and we drank tea and ate such delicacies as long, fat, cylindrical Chinese cream puffs.
Next day I visited at Hong Kong University, our U.S. Embassy and the Office of the Director of Education.
Hong Kong—-a. British Crown Colony— is a truly international community. But it is at the same time a Chinese community and our educational travelers can learn much about China there. And we can’t learn about China in China because we can’t go there.
The flavor of the Orient may be savored completely, and without sacrifice of very many of the conveniences and comforts which we in the U.S. like to enjoy in daily life.
THAILAND
PA 1 (t)
Lv. Hong Kong............120°E	10:30
Arr. Bangkok, Thailand ,.105°E	14:30
(t) Douglas Super-6 Clipper
District Traffic Manager Ed Lind, an old time PAA friend, awaited me at Don Muang Airport, Bangkok. Mahogany brown from five years of brilliant Thailand sunshine, Lind had just finished the cultivation of a large black mustache which made him an impressive sight indeed. You felt he should be wearing a turban.
Ed drove me to an away-from-the-busi-ness-section hotel, the Park, which was notable among the homes away from home of this trip for individuality and atmosphere. The buildings rambled around a pleasant garden in a manner charming, but a little confusing. I had to ask for directions to my room when I returned later by myself.
This room was open to the breezes on two sides—but securely screened against the multitude of insects, at least the larger ones. Its bath room boasted a swimming pool! Tiled steps led down into a tile lined tank five feet square and five feet deep—with a drain in the floor which could be stoppered so that water could be drawn to armpit level. But the faucets ran slowly and I never had time to fill it. Settled for the shower which dribbled from a back corner.
The house “boys” were all young Siamese girls very pretty, very shy, most anxious to please and almost completely innocent of any knowledge of English. One evening two of them appeared outside my screened wall with an insecticide spray gun, squirted tentatively, and spoke to me gently in what may have been English. Somewhat startled I
said, “I don’t understand”, and they skittered away like little scared fawns.
They returned in my absence and did spray, a necessary ritual in Bangkok because of the mosquitoes.
* * %
A delightful call and interview in Bangkok was the reward of an appointment with Prince Prem, editor of the English language paper, “Standard” and an indefatigable worker for progress in education in Thailand. We called at his home and sat with him in a comfortable open air living room furnished in crisp cool blue and cream draperies and upholstered furniture. We chatted about the Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools—Prince Prem had a part in selecting six Thailand students who in various recent years have traveled via PAA to the United States to participate in the forum. We discussed his hopes for travel by Siamese teachers—or rather for more travel by Siamese teachers—to their neighboring countries and to the United States. It was encouraging evidence that our educator friends in Asia want to visit us and get acquainted—just as we want to visit them more than we have done in the past.
INDIA
Lv. Bangkok, Thailand	PA 3 (t) . . 105°E	17:45
Arr. Calcutta, India		82^°E	20:30
Lv. Calcutta, India....	,82^°E	22:30
Arr. Delhi, India		,82^°E	2:15
(t) Douglas Super-6 Clipper
Salaam, Sahib!
1 can say now that I have been on the receiving end of that flattering form of address.
I entered India at Calcutta, where as a transit passenger—going on immediately to Delhi on the same plane—I was asked only to file a declaration of funds being carried into the country.
Reboarding the Super-6 I found a change had been made. There was a bulk head midway in the passenger cabin—a temporary partition installed by the Calcutta mechanics while the plane was being serviced. Ahead of the temporary bulk head the seats had been moved together into the “high density” configuration of tourist service. Behind the bulk head, first class seating and service arrangements prevailed. I was glad of the opportunity to ride in the combination plane, as there will be more such service with the extension of tourist service entirely around the world and to the South Pacific, on sectors where service is less frequent. The combination arrangement makes it possible to book either first class or tourist, on any day there is a scheduled flight, eliminating waits that would be introduced if first class only was scheduled for one day, then tourist only for a flight later in the week.
We’ve had two class (or more) boats, trains with two or more classes, and in Hong Kong there is a ferry from Kowloon to the island in the bay—a five minute ride, with first and second classes. Now we have it in aviation. Wrorks out all right, too.
* * *
Arrival at New Delhi was in the early morning hours. I was greeted by the PAA Airport Traffic Supervisor S. Swasminathan who dispatched me to Maidens Hotel in Old Delhi—a charming old hostelry of (Continued on page 15)