Pam American
World Airways Teacher
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA
A SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM:
Is Africa still the mysterious expanse of fierce animals and hidden treasure we’ve heard about so often?
A.	Reasons for selection:
1.	So little is known about modern Africa.
2.	Air transportation brings Africa within reach of more tourists.
3.	Students have read stories or heard about Stanley and Livingstone.
4.	Study of the explorations of Vasco da Gama and Bartholomeu Diaz.
5.	Stories of the famous gold and diamond mines.
6.	Stories of African hunting expeditions highlighted by writing contest essays on Theodore Roosevelt at the time of his birthday.
7.	African Exhibit at Carnegie Center— United Nations Plaza.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION 2 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Movies which the students have seen such as “King Solomon’s Mines”, “African Queen”, “Ivory Hunter”, may be reviewed and discussed.
2.	Pictures of scenes of Africa, of the diamond and gold mines, the animals of the jungle, and other scenes that will arouse interest.
3.	Stories of Africa (use the bibliography in this issue).
4.	Newspaper clippings such as:
a.	“South Africans Go Soft; Would Fence in Lions.”
b.	“South Africa claims lead in World Frog Jumping.”
c.	“South Africa YULE Spent At Beaches.”
d.	“African Handicraft in Carnegie Center Exhibit.”
e.	“Motoring Down to Capetown by Luxury Bus.”
f.	News stories of the all-girl safari to Africa.
5.	Audio-Visual aids suggested in this issue.
6.	Stories of expeditions by Theodore Roosevelt, Stanley, Livingstone, and others.
7.	Visit to the African Hall of the Museum of Natural History or to Roosevelt’s Collection in his home in Oyster Bay.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What is the relationship of the Union of South Africa to the rest of the continent?
2.	How did the natural resources of South Africa contribute to its growth?
3.	Who are some of the people who contributed to the growth of the Union of South Africa?
4.	What are the trade relations between the United States and the Union of South Africa?
5.	What has been and will be the effect of the airplane on the history of the Union of South Africa?
6.	How did some of the stories of the mysteries of Africa originate?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:—explorations of Diaz and da Gama; colonization of the Dutch and the English; importance of natural resources of Africa to the United States; products and industries; imports and exports; government of the Union of South Africa; capital and other important cities; varied types of inhabitants; languages; scenic places; provinces; transportation; climate; shape of the continent; nearness to the equator; large rivers and lakes; waterfalls; veldt; importance of Baker, Park, Smuts, Speke, Stanley, Livingstone, van Riebeeck, Kruger, Rhodes, Leopold II, and Botha.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New Words:—many are listed in the vocabulary in this issue. Meaning of words like veldt, bushman, boer, pygmy, and mealies.
b.	Spelling:—words necessary for use in written work in this unit. Spelling of cities, places of interest, and names of famous people.
c.	Oral Communication:—tracing routes to Africa; sharing information gathered in class; interviewing people about Africa; reading interesting parts of stories; giving reports; dramatizing explorations and reporting on current events.
d.	Written Communication:—letters asking for information; book reviews; reports; plan trips by request; creative composition such as:
I worked in the Kimberley mines
discovery of gold in Africa
what is meant by “darkest Africa”?
a trip to the veldt
tales of the African jungle
a sightseeing tour
reports of famous people; reviews of movies and strip films.
e.	Literature:-—Rider Haggard - “King Solomon’s Mines”; Mungo Park’s “Travels in the Interior of Africa”; Stanley “Dr. Livingstone I presume”; Afrikaans literature; Olive Shreiner, South African writer; works of Sarah G. Millin; Pauline Smith; Sir Percy Fitzpatrick’s childrens classic “Jack of the Bushveld”; poems by Roy Campbell, Cullen Gouldsbury and A. S. Cripps; travel records of Livingstone and Burchell; letters of Lady Anne Barnard; and books listed in the bibliography.
3.	Science:—reversal of seasons; birds; such as the ostrich, secretary bird, pelican, flamingos, red-eye bubuls; Africa’s national flower-chincherinchees; silver leaf tree, jacaranda tree, camelias; basuto ponies; steinbok, bushbok, koodov, gnu, waterbuck, raikat, hluhlume (rare white rhino); god reefs; “the big hole” (diamond mines); veldt-treeless grassland; bush veldt-wooded; mineral resources; evenness of temperatures; Kruger National Park.
4.	Health:—living conditions of the poor; jungle diseases; improvements in health conditions; food in the cities and in the villages; sports, such as racing, cricket, rugby (the National game), soccer, baseball, swimming.
5.	Music:—Josef Marais-Songs of the Veldt; Eisteddfod festival-municipal symphony; songs listed in “Song Source Material”; native dances.
6.	Art:—sculpture, paintings, handicraft, ceremonial vessels, drums, spears, statues, ivory, leather portraits, original drawings by students after study of scenic places, industries, costumes and customs.
7.	Mathematics:—in the reading matter in this issue are many large numbers which may be used for practice in reading numbers; many opportunities for graphs to show comparison of exports and imports; production of gold, diamonds and oil; road mileage from place to place; air distance from New York City to Africa; population graphs showing the percentages of various peoples; a time line; value of the pound; money exchange.
B.	Skills: There will be a good deal of material gathered in this unit. Hence, it would be a good idea to concentrate on organization of facts, making of outlines and speaking from an outline. Comparison of “then and now” will be important also.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	The realization that Africa is not entirely a “dark continent.”
2.	An interest in the growth of Southern Africa and a comparison of their history with the history of the United States.
3.	An understanding of the struggle to modernize.
4.	A realization that the “Air Age” brings another nation closer to our shores.
5.	An understanding of the problems caused by the differences in people making up the Union.
6.	An understanding of many of the industrial problems.
7.	A realization of the geographical influences on the country.
8.	An understanding of the many handicaps that have been overcome and that still exist such as transportation, communication and lack of capital.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	Things to Do:
1.	Map study is very important in this unit.
2.	Make a time line showing the important events since the explorations of Diaz and da Gama to date.
3.	Collect pictures of the many animals in Africa and make a scrap book.
4.	Look up some facts about the people important to the history of the Union of South Africa.
5.	Plan a trip to Roosevelt’s home in Oyster Bay, to the Museum of Natural History, or to a place in your community which may have an African collection.
6.	Show some of the films mentioned in this issue.
7.	Invite a member of the airlines to talk to you about Africa.
8.	Have an exhibit of the products of Africa.
9.	Read some of the books mentioned in the bibliography.
10.	Make a movie or a diorama of scenes in South Africa.
11.	Plan trips and map routes.
12.	Map the routes of the early discoverers and explorers.
13.	Keep your Bulletin Board up to date with clippings about the Union of South Africa.
14.	Test your classmates on the answers to the questions in this issue.
15.	Write for more information about the Union of South Africa.
B.	Culmination:
1.	A dramatization of Stanley’s search for Livingstone.
2.	A “Who’s Who in Africa?”
3.	Share your committee reports-, scrapbooks and exhibits with other classes.
4.	Present a series of book reviews on interesting stories of Africa.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
A.	Pictures, books, magazines
B.	Audio-visual aids with special emphasis on globes and maps.
C.	Personnel
1.	People who have visited Africa.
2.	People in industries allied with these in Africa.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
A study of this part of Africa should
create a desire to learn more about other
parts of Africa.
I.	AFRICA calling—What can you answer?
1.	Name the 4 provinces in the Union of South Africa?
2.	When did South Africa become a Union?
3.	Who represents the British Crown?
4.	Where does the Legislature meet?
5.	Where is the seat of government?
6.	What are the official languages?
7.	Which is the oldest port?
8.	What assembly plants are increasing in number?
9.	From which countries do the bulk of immigrants to South Africa come?
10.	Who rounded Cape Horn 200 years B.C.?
II.	What did Diaz name the Cape?
12.	Who changed the name? Why?
13.	Which country first settled South Africa?
14.	In what park is the largest game sanctuary in the world?
15.	Who was the first representative of the Union of South Africa to the United
Nations?
16.	Who was the first premier of the Union of South Africa?
17.	How does the continent of Africa compare in size with the other continents?
18.	What is the shape of Africa?
19.	What is the population of South Africa?
20.	How long does it take to reach the Union of South Africa by plane from your home?
21.	What is the difference in time between New York and the Union of South Africa?
22.	What are rondavels?
23.	Name as many kinds of natives living in Africa as you can.
11.	GOLD
1.	How does this product rank as a source of foreign currency?
2.	How long after gold was discovered in the United States was it discovered in Africa?