4 Union of South Africa
Pan Amer îcan
World Airways Teacher
pany had no interest in colonizing in Africa ; its interest was in making money in JaVa and Batavia. All this happened, one must remember, at a time when Cromwell ruled England and the Dutch were building on Manhattan Island the beginnings of New York City.
Then the miracle happened. By 1660 clerks and soldiers from Holland began to love the strange, wild country, the sunlight, the cloudless skies—things that began to form the pattern of a new life. When their time was up and they were due to' return home the Dutch began to ask to be allowed to stay. And from that day on the Cape was their home. For 150 years the Dutch owned and ruled the Cape, first the Dutch East India Company and then the Batavian Republic. The settlement at the foot of Table Bay grew into a town, Kaapstad, which tneans Cape Town. From the East came the lofty rooms and the white-washed walls of the Dutch Colonial style of architecture, teak beams, Malay slaves, spices and exotic forms of cookery. From Holland came more settlers, seeds and Friesian cattle, the clean and orderly methods of the mother country way of life.
But Dutch sea power began to wane, and by the end of the Eighteenth century England had become the maritime power of Europe. Being at war with France, England wanted bases from which her merchantmen could be defended from the French privateers. So by 1795 England had possession of the Cape. However, like the Dutch East India Company before her, England had no intention of colonizing and it was understood that when the war with France was over she would withdraw her troops. In due course, the British troops marched bade to their ships and sailed away. Not for long though. There was one of those big reshufflings of colonial territories among the
nations of Europe in which France lost most. The Cape, a minor card at the bottom of the pack, valued only as a potential naval base and victualling port, was dealt to Britain. And in 1806 British ships and troops returned to Table Bay—this time to stay. Under the peace settlement of 1814 the Cape was formally ceded to Great Britain by the Kingdom of the Netherlands. In 1820 English settlers were brought to South Africa, some twenty ship-loads of them. They landed for the most part in Algoa Bay, and by their landing they virtually created the town of Port Elizabeth.
Capetown today is a city where East and West meet, where the culture and the customs of three countries, Britain, Holland and France, all have mingled to a great degree. There you will see fezzed Malays answering the call to prayer from a mosque which lies within a hundred yards of a Lutheran church probably transplanted intact from the Low Countries. You will see the cool, whitewashed buildings built by the early Dutch settlers, and the concrete skyscrapers that have come with the Twentieth Century.
From tlje British influence you get the advantage o’f speaking English, which is one of the official languages of the country. From the Dutch inheritance comes much of the beauty of the city. The Dutch are gardeners and plant trees wherever they go. From the French and their descendants come the wines, the brandies and the liqueurs produced in the cellars of the Cape. Today Capetown is the Parliamentary Capital of the Union. For its beauty, it is sometimes compared to Naples because of its location oh Table Bay Mountain rising majestically behind the city, to a height of 3,549 feet. On either side of Table Mountain are the peaks of Devil’s Peak and Lion’s Head. Beyond Lion’s Head a series of peaks known as the
Twelve Apostles stretch toward the Cape Point. It is possible to reach the top of Table Mountain by Aerial Railway and have a view of both the Atlantic and Indian Oceans.
Cecil Rhodes, South Africa’s great leader, loved his city more than anything else in the world. His house, bequeathed by him to the Prime Ministers of South Africa, is virtually a memorial to Rhodes. South Africa’s own monument to Rhodes is on the mountain side above the University. Rhodes often climbed to this plateau and spent an hour or two gazing North where his plans were taking shape. Now a simple granite temple marks the spot and Watts’ equestrian statue “Energy” is there. In a niche in the temple is a bronze bust of Rhodes and carved beneath it these lines by Kipling:
“His immense and, brooding spirit still
Shall quicken and control.
Living he zvas the land
And dead his soul shall be her soul.”
City of Gold
Johannesburg is now third only to Cairo and Alexandria among Africa’s cities and is the largest south of the Sahara. Its streets are lined with skyscraper offices, streamlined apartment buildings, and elegant hotels. Prosperous mining companies and world-famous banks alternate with smart shops, theatres, and cafes. Almost a million people now live in Johannesburg, and it is still growing.
Johannesburg, or “Jo’burg”, as the South Africans call it, looks and feels youthful. Trees line its avenues; its suburbs bloom with flowers. Its 5800-foot elevation makes the air seem clear and bracing, the sunlight sparkling. Yet the city reaches farther down than it does up. Three gold mines inside Johannesburg’s municipal area go more than 9000 feet below the surface. Only the most modern scientific techniques and air cooling make it possible for men h> work so deep underground.
Johannesburg’s gold, however, has produced more than skyscrapers and modern machinery. Four thousand students at the new University of the Witwatersrand are taking courses in the arts and sciences, medicine, postgraduate law, and engineering. The university was opened only a little more than half a century ago as a technical school.
The university library has a fascinating collection of maps, diaries, and other documents all dealing with the opening up of Africa. They are relatively new and many signed by David Livingstone, the famous explorer. But the library’s prize possession is much older. It is a 7-foot stone cross raised in 1488 by the Portuguese explorer Bartholomeu Diaz on the southeast coast of Africa. Diaz, looking for a passage to India, was the first European to sail around the tip of the continent. He never got to India. His men rebelled and forced him to turn back; so, as evidence that he had gone this far, he landed and raised the cross. For centuries Portuguese writers mentioned the Diaz cross. There was no trace of it. Not until 1938 when a research party found its fragments buried in the sands 60 miles northeast of Port Elizabeth. It was brought to Johannesburg and pieced together. Three and a half centuries passed between Diaz’
CAPETOWN — Residence of the Prime Minister, which was the Groote Schuur Estate and was left to the country by Cecil Rhodes.