6 Union of South Africa
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
KRUGER NATIONAL PARK — This native village is located in the huge (200 miles long by 30 to 60 miles wide) game sanctuary where visitors driving through in automobiles may see the wild animals in their native surroundings.
“Flower of the Transvaal” and other Cities
Pretoria, “Flower of the Transvaal”, is the name used to describe the capital of the Union of South Africa. It is a city of parks and gardens and of gentle green rolling hills. But Pretoria has something unique in late spring, when thousands of Jacaranda trees, some giants of more than 30 feet and others mere saplings, come into flower and drape the entire city in a mantle of mauve, transforming the Administrative Capital into a real fairyland. In Jacaranda week Pretoria sheds its official cloak of quiet dignity and begins its celebration—dances, parties, contests and floral processions. One of the highlights is the choosing of “Miss Jacaranda”.
Pretoria is about one hour’s drive by car from Johannesburg. Soon a great cubic mass can be seen dominating the hills some ten miles ahead. This is the Voortrekker Monument, South Africa’s tribute to the pioneers who opened this hinterland over 100 years ago. The Monument is an imposing granite tower set within a circle of stone wagons, representing the stockade used by the Voortrekkers for defense. Inside the Monument there is a sarcophagus immortalizing the sacrifices of the pioneers and above the Hall, in a 100 feet square the story of the Trek is told in a marble frieze. Overlooking Pretoria you will see the Union Buildings symbolizing the union of the four provinces in 1910, when Pretoria became the Administrative Capital. The lawns around the statue of Louis Botha, first Premier of South Africa, are often the scene of folk dances staged by the present descendants of the old Voortrekkers. It was in honor of one of their famous leaders, Andries Pretonus, that the city was named in 1855, 31 years before Johannesburg began.
It is interesting to note that years later, when Sir Theophilus Shepstone was sent to the Transvaal Republic, as it was called in those days, for Britain, his secretary was a young man called Rider Haggard who later used his African experiences to become a world-famous author of such books as King Solomon’s Mines and She.
The Union of South Africa, like the United States, has its government divided
into three segments—administrative, legislative, and judicial. But, unlike our government, in South Africa each segment has its own capital city. Pretoria is the home of South Africa’s chief executive, the Governor General, of its Cabinet ministers and civil service; it is also the residence of foreign diplomats. Capetown is the seat of the Legislature. And Bloemfontein, provincial capital of the Orange Free State, is the headquarters of the national judiciary. This arrangement—two capital cities, in fact, three—with its member 1,000 miles apart, has many disadvantages. It is costly, it is inimical to efficiency, and it is the source of many a grievance. The dual capital system was part of the price paid for creating the Union of South Africa. The four provinces, particularly the Transvaal and the old Cape Province would not have agreed to enter the Union except with a dual capital system. So every year, about January and February, everything and everybody are on the move in Pretoria for Capetown. It is an interesting fact for a believe-it-or-not question.
The Union of South Africa is amazing for its vastness and its variety, rich in mineral and agricultural potentialities. It is a pleasant, health-giving land, but one which has imposed the endurance of hardness as a condition of the enjoyment of its best gifts. It is a land of many difficulties, or perplexing problems for those of us from the outside, but a land wide, free, expansive, varied in its beauty, liberating in its atmosphere, challenging in its prospects. But if you are a traveller in search of sunlight and new experiences, the lover of mountains and seas, a naturalist, a sociologist, or an ordinary person who wishes to discover a varied and enchanting land, you will always cherish the day you decided to visit the Union of South Africa.
STELLENBOSCH — In the United States this would be called a barbecue, or perhaps simply a picnic. The students of Stellenbosch university, wearing the costume of the Boer days, call it a Breeiflace.