8 Union of South Africa
Pa/v America tv
Won co Airways Teachfr
KIMBERLEY — The diamonds on display in this picture are worth four million dollars. Note especially the three very large ones, each the size of a fist.
in depth and a mile in circumference, created by individual diggers in the first year of operations. Modern mining techniques however, require an investment of millions of dollars in machinery not to mention the millions more spent yearly on maintenance, replacement and modernization of the immense plant required to treat the fabulous blueground. Thirty-five million pounds of this ore have to be processed in order to recover one pound of diamonds.
Although the diamond is usually looked upon as a luxury item a large portion of the stones produced are used for industry. Owing to their extreme hardness and durability, diamonds have become an indispensable product for the United States and every other manufacturing country. The needs of industry during World War II and in the postwar period have resulted in a tremendous increase in the demand for the production of South African diamonds. Another incidental result of the war was the development of newly established diamond cutting works in Johannesburg, Capetown and Durban, when it became impossible to send stones to Amsterdam, the traditional center for this work, after the Germans occupied that city in 1940.
Other Minerals
The Union is also fortunate in its resources of the less romantic minerals and base metals as iron ore, coal, copper, manganese and chrome. A modern iron and steel industry founded in 1928, now operates coke ovens, blast furnaces, a steel plant, rolling mills, a wire works and a plate mill as well as an iron ore mine. .In addition to steel ingots, rolled and drawn steel products such by-products are produced as ammonia, heavy naphtha, road tars and creosote and light oils. Reserves for the steel industry are impressive for, while deposits of high grade ore are being exploited in the Transvaal, thousands of millions of tons of ore of various types lie untouched in other parts of the Union. Manganese and chrome ores are also available in large quantities.
Dependable supplies of coal are as important to the building up of an industrial state as is steel and South Africa’s resources are immense with figures of calculated reserves reaching almost astronomical proportions. Coal is used as a power supply due to a lack of perennial rivers. Coal fields are fortunately located near important industrial and gold mining areas enabling power stations to be built on or near their source of supply. Another use of coal is the new synthetic oil which is being encouraged by the Government. Copper deposits are in continuous commercial production. The Union produces almost all of its essential tin requirements and in the future will have a surplus of this strategic material. Tungsten, mercury and antimony are other important materials whose production has been stimulated by other than local demand. There are also considerable deposits of asbestos and corundum.
Along with the growth in the production of the mineral wealth of the Union has been the expansion in secondary industries of all kinds. The textile industry is one of the most important having increased its production tenfold since 1914. There are now about 1,000 factories engaged in textile
work and the increase has been such that South Africa has become an exporting country. Another important industry which is developing is the assembly of automobiles. Several United States corporations have or are in the process of establishing important assembly plants in the Union. The Union makes no cars of its own. These assembly plants have the right of distributing cars to all of Africa and the Middle East.
Pastoral Wealth
Despite all the industrial development which has taken place in the Union, the economy of the country is still essentially agricultural. However, more modern and more readily available farm machinery, rural electrification schemes and a larger demand and a wider market for agricultural products all stem from industrial expansion. South Africa’s comfortable climate is not advantageous for agriculture. The greater part of the country has a summer rainfall and is subject to six months’ winter drought. Torrential summer thundershowers result in damage to the soil by erosion, estimated to deprive the country of about 300,000,000 tons of top soil a year. This creates a very serious problem considering the fact that only 6% of the land is under cultivation. It is unlikely that more than 15% can ever be utilized for agriculture as the remainder is too arid, stony or mountainous. Large scale programs for the reclamation and rehabilitation of the soil, as well as expansion of irrigation schemes are underway.
Much of the South African land available for agriculture is more suited to the development of pastoral industries such as the grazing of dairy and beef cattle, sheep and goats. There is a general trend towards the extension of grazing lands. South Africa is the fourth largest wool producer in the world, with a total of nearly 31,000,000 sheep, of which several million are bred for
mutton. Dry zones produce excellent Merino sheep, famous for their extra-fine wool, and a recent development is the establishment of a Caracul industry for the production of “Persian Lamb’’ skins in the northwest of the Cape Province, which is proving eminently successful. There is a ready sale for these skins in the United States. Goats, of which there are over five million in the Union provide mohair used for such products as automobile upholstery. The dairy industry is well developed and dairy products figure largely in the Union’s exports.
The Union’s main crop is corn, known in South Africa as mealies, which is the staple article of diet for Native Africans and lower income groups. Production is sufficient to meet local demands with surpluses being utilized either for export or for the supplementary feeding of stock. Almost equally important in the Union diet is sorghum, used by some of the natives for brewing beer and popular with Europeans as a breakfast food. South Africa is not able to meet its own wheat requirements although the Government has provided substantial subsidies to encourage production. Turkish and Virginian types of tobacco are grown with local factories, supplying the bulk of the country’s requirements of cigarettes and pipe tobacco. Rhodesia supplements the supply of this raw material where necessary. The sub-tropical parts of the country supply the Union with all its sugar requirements plus a large exportable surplus.
Fruit growing is one of South Africa’s most important industries. Not only is the climate extremely favorable, but, coming from the Southern Hemisphere, South Africa’s fruits reach northern markets during late winter and early spring, when competition is at its lowest. Grapes, pears, peaches, plums and apples are produced in