Pan Am frrca N
Mogio Airways Teacher
Union of South Africa 7
Industry and Trade in Modern Africa
By Lou A. Phillips
Some people may still consider Africa a mysterious expanse of jungles and elephants, fierce lions and hidden treasure. However, more than 12,000,000 inhabitants of that Continent know that this type of thinking refers to the Africa of Stanley and Livingstone and not to the present. They live in the Union of South Africa, one of the most modern countries in the world. Far from being a tropical mystery, the Union is a temperate land of rich agriculture and mineral resources, progressive cities, up-to-date factories, good schools, well-developed harbors and fast railways.
One of the self-governing Dominions of the British Commonwealth of Nations, the Union stretches northward from the southernmost tip of the great African Continent to the Limpopo River about 1,300 miles nearer to the Equator. Washed by the waters of the Atlantic and Indian Oceans on the west, south and east, it is bounded on the northwest by South West Africa over which the Union was given a mandate by the League of Nations after World War I. North and northeast lie the British Protectorates of Bechuanaland and Southern Rhodesia and Portuguese East Africa.
With an area of 472,550 square miles, approximately one-sixth the size of the United States or about twice as big as Texas, the Union is divided into four provinces. They are the Cape of Good Hope, Transvaal, Orange Free State and Natal. Two other British Protectorates, Basutoland and Swaziland, are also wholly or partly included within its borders. The Union has an average annual temperature for the whole country of slightly under 60°F and a very high percentage of sunny days. Most of South Africa is a tableland or plateau over 3,000 feet high. This, together with the nature of the ocean currents sweeping its shores, accounts for the remarkable evenness of temperature.
It is a distance of nearly 6,000 miles from Southampton to South Africa’s oldest port, Capetown; and almost 7,000 miles from Capetown to New York City. But the sense of remoteness inspired by these distances is rapidly disappearing as modern transportation, especially the air transport industry, hits its stride. Today, the thousands of miles between New York and Johannesburg’s Jan Smuts Airport can be covered in less than 40 hours of air travel in Pan American World Airways Flying-Clippers.
Gold and Diamonds
Uranium is produced in South Africa in association with gold mining and the country’s first uranium plant was officially opened by South Africa’s Prime Minister on October 8, 1952. The United States, the United Kingdom, and South Africa have entered into an agreement for the production and sale of uranium.
Gold was discovered in South Africa in 1886. Along the 70-mile stretch of the Wit-watersrand of southern Transvaal, a ridge rising 2,000 feet above the hinterland plateau, more than 40% of all the gold produced in the world has been mined during the last sixty-two years. Since the discovery of gold in this region, no less than 15,000 short tons of fine gold have been crushed from approximately 1,500,000,000 tons of ore dug from its rich depths. The value of this gold amounts to about fifteen billion dollars.
There are forty-five major gold mines in South Africa, most of them situated near Johannesburg, a bustling city with a population approximately the same as that of Baltimore or Cleveland. This goldfield, known as the Witwatersrand—the Ridge of White Waters—with its extensions stretching for about 150 miles is the busiest industrial and commercial area in Africa. Some 100 miles to the south of Johannesburg, in the plains of the Orange Free State Province, another new gold area is rapidly being brought to production. Two large mines are already producing gold there and eleven others are being established.
Diamonds, which have played so great a part in the development of South Africa, have achieved a greater economic and strategic importance in the world today than
For over half a century the South African mining scene has been dominated by the gold mining industry which, throughout this period, has been the main attraction for capital from overseas and still occupies a key position in the Union’s economy. For almost the same period the Union has also been fortunate to enjoy a leading position among the world’s diamond producers and, next to gold and wool, diamonds constitute the most important single source of foreign currency for South Africa. With the dawning of the atomic age the Union became a potentially rich source of uranium.
ever before. South Africa’s industrial and commercial beginning dates back to the discovery of the famous Kimberley mines in 1871. It was the wealth from these mines which largely financed the opening up of the Witwatersrand gold mines, and aided Cecil Rhodes in the founding of the Rho-desias. They still play a large part in the country’s economic development. In the industrial field, the recent discovery of the Free State goldfields is due to the use of diamonds for drilling through the 5,000 feet of rock which covers the auriferous ore.
There are two main sources from which diamonds are produced. The most commercially profitable consists of certain seams of blue volcanic rock called “pipes” which occur to a greater or less extent in different localities in the area between the northwest part of Cape Province and the Transvaal. The most famous seams occur around the Kimberley district, in northern Cape Province near the border of the Orange Free State. Other pipes are being worked across the border in the Free State and near Pretoria in the Transvaal where the world’s largest diamond, the Cullinan, weighing about 1?4 pounds (3,025 carats) was found in 1905. The second source lies in certain alluvial deposits which are found over a wide area but which are especially common in the valleys of the Orange and Vaal Rivers. There diamonds are found among the pebbles and boulders of rivers, which at times are artificially diverted from their beds to facilitate mining. In the western Transvaal there are’so-called “dry-diggings” where diamonds are scattered in the top soil and sub-soil of the veld.
As Johannesburg is the center of South Africa’s gold mining activities, so Kimberley is the hub around which the diamond industry revolves. At Kimberley is the famed Big Hole, a wide open cut, 1,400 feet
CAPETOWN — This picturesque beach is on Camps Bay, and was photographed looking southward from Marine Drive, 25 minutes from Capetown.



