Pan American
World Alrways Teacher	Japan 7
(Environs) — The worker is washing freshly dyed cloth in the Takano River
equipment is worn out or obsolete and th( country is faced with a problem of modernization and replacement in which Japan is looking to the United States for existence.
The textile industry has experienced rapid progress in Japan. Introduction of modern equipment and mass production methods combined with centuries of experience in the handling of silk and fashioning it into fabrics gave the Japanese people special aptitudes for producing textiles. Following the First World War Japan overtook the older industrialized nations as an exporter of cotton goods and became steadily more important in rayon, staple fiber and woolen trades. Japan created markets for inexpensive fabrics in Asia, Africa and other under-developed areas where none existed before, not only by being able to sell at low prices, but also by careful study of specific needs of .the countries with which it traded. The latter factor is one of the most important in building up successful trade. One of the most important steps in Japan’s comeback as an industrial nation and exporter has been the rebuilding of its textile industry. Cotton fabric, rayon and staple fiber production have been pushed vigorously and markets are once again being developed in Africa and free Asia.
For many years the words “Made in Japan” stamped on the backs of toys, dishes and jewelry were known the world over. Cheap labor, a well-disciplined people, mass production and natural ingenuity were the backbone of this fame. The constant movement of rural dwellers to the city areas also provided an ever increasing labor supply. At one time, the “Made in Japan” trademark was replaced with “Made in Usa”. The change was made mandatory by the general unpopularity of Japanese colonial ventures on the Asiatic Continent. When printed in capital letters foreign buyers were often unaware of the origin of the goods. Such practices are no longer necessary today as the Free World is ready to help a nation to rebuild its national integrity. New problems have appeared which hamper the growth of Japanese light industry however. Agricultural reform now tends to keep more workers on farms. Newly organized labor unions are forcing up wages. Costs have been rising. To overcome these problems, Japan is trying to increase output per worker and is developing exports of better quality consumer goods, machinery and equipment.
Before the war Japan was among the six largest trading nations of the world. It has made rapid strides to recover this position, particularly since the outbreak of the Korean War which brought Japan several hundred million dollars worth of orders from United Nations Forces. Preoccupation with rearmament on the part of the West and the great expansion of the purchasing power of nearby free raw material producing countries have also helped. Exports have almost doubled every year since 1946 and now total over 1J4 billion dollars annually. Since the end of the Second World War the United States has occupied first place as the supplier for Japanese imports and the customer for Japanese exports. Cotton accounts for more than one-half of Japanese imports from the United States
with grains, fertilizers, oil seeds, machinery and motor vehicles accounting for most of the remaining portion. Silk, cotton textiles, non-ferrous metals and scrap, canned fish and toys are Japan’s more important exports to this country.
The Japanese people, as islanders, have a seafaring background. Their prewar merchant fleet was exceeded only by those of Great Britain and the United States. It gathered raw materials for home industries and distributed finished products throughout the world in addition to carrying many goods of other nations. The outside world first learned about Japan through its seaports, today it is renewing its relations with Japan through that nation’s rebuilt seaports and its increasingly important airports. The end of the Occupation of Japan has enabled the nation to negotiate for resumption of diplomatic relations with all countries but the eight in the Communist Bloc which do not recognize the validity of the Peace Treaty. Japan has also extended its participation in the work of international organizations to the point of becoming a member of the International Court of Justice in 1954.
The Yokohama-Tokyo Area
Over one-fourth of Japan’s pre-war trade flowed through Yokohama. Its monetary value was more than $622,000,000. This port has been devastated twice within the Twentieth Century. In 1923 it was almost leveled by an earthquake. During the Pacific War the port area was again destroyed. It was rebuilt once and is being rebuilt again. Postwar reconstruction has been remarkable however and during the past several years Yokohama has served as an important base of logistical support of the Occupation Forces as well as an important commercial port in processing men and materials for United Nation’s Forces in Korea. Conclusion of the Peace Treaty returned responsibility for Yokohama’s economic progress to the Japanese Government and today some six hundred ocean going ships enter the port from all over the world. Port facilities are scheduled to be enlarged and
improved to accommodate 1,000 ships of 10,000 to 50,000 tons each. All great commercial houses have offices in Yokohama.
Eighteen miles from Yokohama by land and twelve miles by sea lies Tokyo, its man-made harbor built on the rim of a delta formed by the Sumida River which flows through the heart of the city into Tokyo Bay. Early in the Seventeenth Century, after a succession of river mud filled the shallow area, one of Japan’s rulers founded the seat of his shogunate at what was then called Yedo. The city thrived and in 1868 Emperor Meji designated Yedo as the national capital and renamed it Tokyo. The Capital grew and developed rapidly until today it has a population of more than seven million. Modern Tokyo is much like the great cities of Europe and America with its wide streets and up-to-date transportation facilities. Because of the ever-present danger of earthquakes, many of the homes are built of bamboo and the newer public buildings are constructed of steel, concrete and brick. Therefore the city presents a sharp contrast between the old and new with many beautiful Japanese-style buildings still standing as monuments to the splendor of old Japan. The great banking houses which form the basis of Japan’s financial structure are found in the Capital and the city is one of the four great industrial and commercial centers of the country.
For many decades, the nearness of Tokyo to Yokohama caused the nation to hesitate about building adequate harbor facilities and until the end of the last century the Capital’s shipping was confined to coastwise trade. With continued growth however, came the realization that Tokyo had to have its own port facilities and in 1906 the Government embarked on a harbor building project which took almost thirty-five years. In 1941 Tokyo was officially opened as an international trading port. Pre-war freight handled at the port approximated 13,000,000 tons. The Pacific War nipped Tokyo’s prog-