8 Japan
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
ress in the bud and in 1948 a reconstruction program had to be initiated. It is expected that this spring will see Tokyo begin to play a much more decisive role in international commerce than ever before. Tokyo’s international airport is already playing a vital role in the nation’s aerial commerce. Pan American World Airways is playing an important dual role in the country’s air transportation.
Japanese Air Travel
Familiar PAA Flying Clippers glide onto international runways flying westward from our Pacific Coast and eastward towards our Pacific Coast in Pan American’s round-the-world network. Japan has one national airline. However the country is too small and poor to support a wholly domestic airline for although the nation is long and thin with a heavy population the bulk of two way freight and ..passenger traffic is carried on within a four hundred mile radius. The airline’s pre-war activity covered Formosa, Korea, Manchuria, China, Java and Burma. Although Japanese airline personnel are available, the most difficult problem to be faced is the teaching of English to Japanese pilots. Many of the control towers in Japan will remain in the hands of the Security Forces and those that do not will still be catering to foreign planes, none of which use the Japanese language. Another difficult problem is the securing of adequate equipment. Present plans call for the purchase of smaller American planes, some from Pan American.
United States air passengers however, will be making the trip to Japan via Pan American. Once there, they will see the sights for which Japan is well known and will discover some of the lesser known attractions of that country. During wintertime ski grounds and skating arenas are within easy reach of Tokyo and hotsprings are found at or close to most of the winter sports resorts. March, April and May are colorful with cherry blossoms, azaleas, peonies and countless other flowers for which the country is famous. During the rice planting season from June to early July there is a little more rain than usual. In full summer, the weather is suited to swimming, boating or just taking it easy. From September to November, weather is moderately cool and numerous local and national festivals are held. Japan also offers special kinds of entertainment such as the classical Noh and Kabuki theatres, puppet shows, sumo wrestling and native dance festivities. But most visitors are particularly fascinated by Japan’s color and flavor— the exact slope of Mount Fuji, the dark evergreen color and smell of its alpine sec-
tion, and the pale, geometric flats of the rice fields.
The tourist trade in Japan is a potentially rich industry. Centered about Tokyo it could be an extremely productive source of needed foreign exchange. American dollars spent by United States travelers will return far more than their monetary value in enjoyment derived and friendship rebuilt. Materially speaking, the dollars are certain to return home in exchange for needed American produce. In turn needed American products will strengthen the Japanese economy and thus the entire economic picture in the Free Far East. Everyone involved will gain.
In addition to Tokyo and Yokohama there are other cities in Japan which form an integral part of the nation’s economic picture but which are not as well known to the general public. These include Kobe, well-known to international traders ; Osaka ; Nagoya ; and Shimizu.
The Osaka-Kobe Area
The port of Kobe is known to have figured in the China and Korea trades as far back as the First and Second Centuries when Japan began absorbing culture from continental Asia. Later when feudal lords came into power all commerce with China and other parts of Asia was funneled through Kobe. Although at that time Kobe and its vicinity had a population of some 20,000 the city was little more than a desolate hamlet. It remained for a commercial treaty with the United States in 1867 to
open a new era of activity. Increasing foreign trade finally outgrew facilities and in 1906 the Government approved a bill for modernization. The first stage of rehabilitation was completed in 1922 when Kobe was handling almost 40% of Japan’s total trade. Further construction was begun in 1937 but with the outbreak of the China War and later the Pacific War Japan’s foreign trade was reduced to almost nothing. In 1946 occupied Japan was permitted limited foreign trade and Kobe’s activities gradually increased. United States Forces still occupy considerable facilities in the city however. Future prospects for Kobe-Korea and Formosa trade look promising. India and Pakistan have developed their own textile industry and prewar volume of textile exports to those countries cannot be hoped for. But the two countries could use much of Japan’s machines and other products. When trading and monetary agreements are concluded with African and Free Southeast Asian countries and diplomatic and consular agencies'are resumed in full, foreign trade is bound to be stimulated.
Twenty miles east of Kobe lies Osaka, the next largest city to Tokyo with a population of 2,250,000. The city is called the “Manchester of the East” because it contains the largest industrial area in Japan. Thirty percent of the invested industrial capital of the whole country is absorbed in Osaka. The leading industries are spinning, machinery, chemical and metal manufacturing. Three large rivers run through the city and these rivers together with many connecting
YASE — The tourists are getting acquainted with the old man as girls in Oharame costume watch.