10 Japan
Pan Am frrcan
World Airways Trachrr
JAPAN
(Continued from page 2)
4.	Health:—study of the diet of the Japanese which consists mostly of fish and rice, size and stature of Japanese people, number of people compared to the size of the country, sleeping beds and pillows, cleanliness before eating, use of so much fried food, removing shoes before entering a house, sandals, long hours of work, type of clothing, kinds of homes, heating methods. Wrestling matches. Art of fencing. Native dance festivals. Why are the people referred to as short, sturdy and energetic?
5.	Music:—native festivals and dances.
6.	Art:—here the Japanese excel. They use one word “kaku” for writing, drawing and painting. Everyone is trained to a certain extent in art. They are famous for pottery making, cloisonne, bronze, lacquer, dishes, enameling, wood carving. Their work in bronze (the Great Buddha) and their color printing is excellent. “Impressionism” inspired the Japanese art of silk screening. Their paintings are usually religious. They use scrolls, screens and fans. Perhaps some of the children or their parents saw a traveling show of Japanese art which visited Boston, Chicago, Seattle and New York. Study of Japanese architecture.
7.	Mathematics:—length of coastline, comparison of population and area to places of same size in the United States, graphs showing population of the larger cities, graphs showing the amount of trade carried on with the United States and other parts of the world. Difference in time. Length of time to various places in Japan by air and by sea. Graphs showing land under cultivation and industrial land. Comparison of wages in the United States and in Japan. Rate of exchange of Japanese money, (yen).
4.2	Skills:
This would be a good unit in which to develop the skills of reporting, questioning and discussing. Reports will bring out so much that is new and different to the class. There should be much opportunity for good questions and lively discussion. The changes that have taken place and the problems the future holds should give practice in critical tlrinking.
4.3	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:—
A change in attitude is most important in the study of Japan. Many students’ knowledge of Japan is confined to what they heard or read about during World War II.
A realization that Japan has made great strides in the last 50 years.
An interest in the great culture of the Japanese people.
An understanding of the many problems confronting the Japanese and their efforts to solve them.
A realization of the strategic location of Japan and its many implications.
An understanding of the changes Western occupation has made in the thinking of the people, the government, production, living conditions, etc.
5.	Suggested Experiences:
1.	An exhibit of things made in Japan and occupied Japan and of Japanese art, fans, screens, etc.
2.	An exchange album prepared to send to school children in Japan.
3.	A collection of scenic posters, postal cards and pictures of Japan.
4.	Write to the Japanese Travel Information Office and get further information.
5.	Try writing some of the Japanese characters on rice paper with a brush.
G. Perhaps a relative of a student who has visited Japan would talk to the class.
7.	Movies or strip films on Japan.
8.	Read some of the books listed in the Bibliography and give reviews.
9.	Make a list of Japanese words and their meanings.
10.	Construct a Japanse home. Show a family at a meal, sleeping quarters, etc.
11.	Plafi a doll festival. Dress dolls as the Emperor, Empress, ladies in waiting, men and women of old and new Japan. Make Japanese lanterns and Japanese kites. Celebrate Japanese Kite Day.
6.	Culmination:
Prepare a set of slides showing life in Japan; at home, at a festival, and at work. Have some children in the class explain each slide. Share these with -other classes of the school.
Make a map of Japan. Show the location of places of interest, large cities, large production areas and products for which they are noted.
Any of the items in -#5 might be part of the culmination.
7.	Materials of Instruction:
1.	As many books,	magazines and pic-
	tures as possible.	
2.	Travel folders.	
3.	Audio and visual	aids.
4.	Maps and globes.	
5.	Articles made in	Japan.
6.	Personnel.	
8.	Leads to New Units:
The study of Japan might create a desire
to know more about other people in Asia.
After reading this issue of Pan American World Airways Teacher let us see how much of the information we can remember:
I.	Japan is called .....................
..-............... The famous sacred
mountain is named.............. Before
entering a house or a schoolroom children..................................
About ......% of the land is good for
cultivation. Japan is about...........
miles from Korea. The capital is......,
situated on the ......... river. There
are about .......... islands in Japan.
The coast line extends more than......
miles. The population of Japan is about
.......-.... Their laws are made in
the.............which has...............
houses. The head of the government is
the ............ The pe.ople of Japan
are noted for their......and..........
Farms are usually................. and
farming is done by................ labor.
The principal agricultural product is
.......... The second most important
food item is....... A potentially rich
industry is the......................
II. To what do these Japanese words
refer?:		
1.	obi	9. futous
2.	sukiyaki	10. hari-kari
3.	tempura	11. ohayo gozaimas
4.	shinto	12. ikaga desu
5.	san-san-kudo	13. o har o
6.	sake	14. sampans
7.	sayonora	15. tofu
8.	hashi	
On	a map of Japan locate:	
1.	Kyoto	9. Honshu
2.	Osako	10. Shikohu
3.	Nagoya	11. Yokohoma
4.	River Sumida	12. Kobe
5.	Tokyo	13. Sea of Japan
6.	Mt. Fujiyama	14. Nagasaki
7.	Hokhaido	15. Hiroshima
8.	Kyushu	16. Bay of Osaka
IV. ,What connection have each of the following names with Japan?:
1. Perry	4.	Akihito
2. Hirohito	5.	Ridgway
3. MacArthur		
V. Cities of Japan: (Match them with the items for which they are noted)
1.	Kyoto	textile manufacturing
2.	Kobe	cultural, "classical city”
3.	Osaka	leading seaport
4.	Tokyo	"Manchester of the East”
5.	Nagoya	capital
6.	Yokohama	pottery, cloisonne, china ware
7.	Nagasaki	winter resort
General Questions:		
1.	Do women	vote in Japan? If so,
since when?
2.	Which island is called the mainland of Japan?
3.	Why did the Japanese become such a great seafaring nation?
4.	How many volcanoes in Japan? How many are active?
5.	What is one of Tokyo’s main attractions?
6.	About how many years did Japan remain in isolation?
7.	What was the name of the pact which opened Yokohama to foreign trade?
8.	What minerals are found in Japan?
9.	For what is the sulphur used?
10.	What products make up Japan’s great textile industry?
11.	What products do we in the United •States import from Japan? Which do we export to Japan?