Pan Amer r can
Wan io Airmys Teaches	Japan i \
12.	What happened to the port of Yokohama in 1923? In World War II?
13.	What is the population of Tokyo?
14.	How many rivers run through the city of Osaka?
15.	In what regions are most of Japan’s pottery and porcelain produced?
16.	Which is one of the most unique cities of Japan?
17.	On what island are most of Japan’s industries and business activities concentrated?
18.	How has Japan prepared for the growth of democratic institutions since World War II?
19.	Name the four largest islands of Japan.
20.	What territory did Japan lose as a result of World War II?
VII. Questions for Discussion:
1.	How did the “occupation” change the life of the Japanese?
2.	Changes have taken place in the position of the emperor and his family. How did the visit of the Crown Prince help to explain this? What other changes do you know of?
3.	How is Japan trying to increase her trade?
4.	Why does Japan occupy a strategic place in our military planning?
5.	Why is the “geography” of Japan important?
6.	Why are England’s textile merchants worried about the rise in the Japanese textile trade?
7.	Why are United States manufacturers also showing concern over the increased number of Japanese products entering our country?
Adding new words to your vocabulary is always a good idea. Try some of these:
adhere—-to stick together
adjacent—close at hand
alcove—a covered part of a large room
archipelago—a sea studded with islands
armament—equipment for action and defense
astounded—overwhelmed with amazement
callousness—hardened in feeling
cloisonne—designs in enamel
compensate—to make suitable return
confiscated—forfeited
consequence—result
cult—form of religion
decisive—putting an end to uncertainty
desolate—deprived of inhabitants, dwellings, etc.
devastated—destroyed by war, fire, flood, etc.
diffidence—shyness, modesty diversified—made into a variety eminence—a lofty place, a hill equivalent—equal in value exotic—foreign, not native exploited—put to use selfishly flanking—bordering, touching foliage—growth of leaves frugal—saving, sparing
ginko—Japanese tree with beautiful foliage hamlet—a little village
hinterland—land lying behind seacoast or shore of river
inevitable—can not be prevented
industrialists—manufacturers, people connected with industries
ingenious—clever, inventive ingots—a mass of cast metal imposing—making an impression
insular—pertaining to an island
integrity—upright character
intensively—thoroughly
isolation—remain detached, outside
leveled—laid flat, destroyed
logistical—moving and supplying armies
lures—attracts, draws
mandarins—Chinese oranges
mandatory—required
meager—scanty, inadequate
moats—ditches outside of fortress wall
monetary—pertaining to money or finance
negligible—inconsiderable, may be disregarded
non-ferrous—relating to metals other than iron
obi—a broad silken sash worn by .Japanese women
obsolete—gone out of use pagodas—sacred towers
persimmon—plum like fruit, orange, red or yellow
precipitous—steep
prone—lying flat
prawns—like shrimp
preoccupation—before possession
quays—landing places where vessels unload
rehabilitation—restoration
remote—located far away
ritual—a form or method for certain ceremonies
samurai—member of soldier class, lower nobility
sedative—medicine relieving pain sericultural—management of silkworms
shogunate—hereditary office in Japanese army
specific—plainly set down, definite staple—a principal product of a country stimulus—arouses energy and action surpassed—exceeded, went beyond amount stated
unique—only one of its kind, rare, uncommon
unrivaled—unequal, matchless urbanity—refined courtesy Vermillion—bright red
JAPAN BIBLIOGRAPHY
Japan’s Prospect—Douglas G. Harring— Harvard University Press—Cambridge —1946.
Japan, Its Resources And Industries—C. D. Carvis & C. L. McNichols—Harper— New York—1944.
Japan’s Industrial Strength—Kate Louise Mitchell—Knopf—New York—1942.
Japan, The Hungry Guest—George C. Allen —Dutton—New York—1938.
Japan’s Feet Of Clay—Freda Utley— W. W. Norton & Co. Inc.—1937.
Japan’s Place In The Modern World— Ernest H. Pickering—George G. Harrap & Co.—London—1936: