Pan American
6 Jopgn___________________Mania AflimVS T£4CffEft_________________
FOREIGN TRADE AND PROSPERITY IN JAPAN
by Lou A. Phillips
It may seem strange that a nation which existed for more than two hundred years without relations with the outside world should depend so greatly today on foreign commerce for its economic security. But Japan, its past and its present, prove the truth of such a statement. Similarly, it may seem strange that a group of mountainous islands thousands of miles across the Pacific Ocean which were almost unknown to the United States a century ago should be one of the most vital factors in our plan for the establishment of a peaceful Far East. Events involving Japan prove this statement also.
Japan’s first contacts with the outside world actually came about during the Sixteenth Century, when the first European traders and missionaries began to arrive. At first strangers were welcome but when they tried to interfere with Japanese customs and beliefs, Japanese rulers became alarmed and decreed that no more Europeans could enter the country. For more than two hundred years Japan remained in isolation. The United States shattered this self-erected barrier in 1859 when Commodore Perry sailed into the harbor of Yokohama. Six years later the Kanagawa Pact was signed which formally opened the port to foreign trade. When happened at Yokohama since that date has been paralleled throughout Japan. When Commodore Perry first saw the city it was little more than a tiny fishing village. In less than eighty years its harbor was transformed into a world shipping center capable of accommodating over 3,000 ocean going vessels and
imSm
over 3,000 coastwise ships with a combined tonnage of over twenty million tons. Within the same eighty year period the entire country was modernized with a rapidity that astounded the outside world. Within two generations the Japanese people absorbed technical developments which had taken centuries in the West. Medieval nobility and samurai were replaced by energetic industrialists and from a minor Oriental country Japan rose to a world power.
The rapid changes created many strains and problems. The three-fold increase in population disturbed the delicate balance which had been achieved between population and resources in medieval Japan. To feed and maintain the people at the standard of living which had reached a comparatively high level, Japan turned to the development of overseas markets for its products and services, and to colonial ventures to secure raw materials. These latter ventures, undertaken unwisely only served to create the present heavy burden Japan is endeavoring to bear today.
The inevitable consequence of overcrowded population and the lack of great natural resources available from within her small territory forced Japan to attain a self-supporting economy and improve her standard of living by increased export of processed foods—goods made out of raw materials imported by her from abroad. In other words, the nation’s improvement of its standard of living depends solely on how much Japan can yield additional values in the process of
converting imported raw materials and foodstuffs into exportable goods.
Basic Resources
The soil of Japan on the whole, is not very fertile, but it is intensively cultivated and is made productive by the use of fertilizers. Because of the great numbers of people (about 100,000,000) crowded into a small area, farms are very small. Farming is carried on chiefly by hand labor. Only about 20% of the total area of the country is cultivated, yet farming is the leading occupation. Rice is the principal agricultural product and is grown wherever there is water. Despite the great rice harvests each year, there is not enough to supply the needs of the people and much has to be imported. Other important products are wheat, barley, rye, corn, soy-beans, fruits, tea, cotton, hemp, sugar cane and tobacco. Recently livestock raising has become important. Meat, butter, cheese and milk are now used extensively for food, whereas the Japanese formerly avoided the use of dairy products. The chief silk region is located west of Tokyo. •
Next to rice, fish forms the most important food item of the Japanese. Many kinds of fish are found in the coastal waters of the islands and in the inland streams. Although fish is cheap and plentiful the government maintains many hatcheries devoted to fish culture.
Japan is not rich in mineral resources. The only large deposits are those of copper and coal. Coal of a good quality is found in many parts of the islands, and there are also fair deposits of iron which have not been seriously exploited. Copper holds first place among the metals and is used chiefly at home. Other minerals are gold, silver and lead. Sulphur, found around the volcanoes, is used in making matches. Among the most important natural resources are the extensive forests that grow on the mountain slopes.
Industrial Development
Despite meager raw materials Japan was able to build up before the Second World War, a reputation as the workshop of Asia and the most industrially advanced country in the Orient. It had the advantage of cheap and abundant water power, but above all it had hard working, quick learning people. Starting with textile manufacturing and other light industries, before the war Japan developed important machinery and other heavy industries partly under the stimulus of an armament program. When the war ended, half of Japan’s industrial plants were leveled and production came to an almost complete halt. Once reconstruction got underway it was swift however. Industrial output has reached prewar levels. In some cases, such as electricity, cement, motor vehicles and chemicals prewar output has been surpassed. However, much industrial