Pan American
12 Japan	WORID AfRMYR TEACHER
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant
Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education Motion Pictures
(1)	Japan: 80,000,000 Mouths to Feed, 12 min., Sound — Color, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Calls attention to the difficulty of obtaining an adequate food supply for the people of Japan and describes the rice, tea, fishing and salt industries.
(2)	Meet the Ushijimas, 13U> min., Sound—Color, Carlin Films, 450 W. 56th St., New York 19, N. Y.
Produced by Alan Shilin Productions. Emphasizes the changed philosophy in Japan with the influence of western customs, culture, democratic practices, privileges, and commodities. The new westernized Japan is contrasted with the “old” Japan by showing that the elders of the Ushijimas family hold to their ancient customs and religion while the younger members of the family are Christian.
(3)	Kimono, 20 min., Sound—Color, Japan Travel Information Office, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.
This attractive color film traces the fascinating story of The Japanese Kimono. The Japanese maiden is instructed from earliest childhood for the day of her initiation into wifehood. Kimono portrays the activities of the maiden during the immediate days preparatory to her marriage. We see Japan’s traditional costume in all its striking adaptations—for men and women, for young and old, winter and summer, for work and play. The close of the film captures the ritualistic robing of the bride for the wedding ceremony.
(4)	Picturesque Japan, 20 min., Sound— Color, Japan Travel Information Office, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y.
This film opens with striking scenes of the Japanese coast, then quickly moves to the heart of Tokyo, where we see the Imperial Palace, and streets of the modern city. Then, swinging across the countryside, we enter, briefly, the various worlds of island fishermen, luxury hotel guests, rice farmers, and others. One of the striking sequences is a visit to classical Kyoto, cultural center of Japan. Here a,re seen some of the finest works of Japanese art and architecture. We see the Summer Palace, parks, shrines and temples; a festival procession with enormous, ancient floats and elaborate costumes. Later we come to the old city of Nara, then on to Osaka, Japan’s second city. Here modern department stores and shops compare with those of Tokyo.
(5)	Moku Hanga, 15 min., Sound— Color, Young America Films, Inc., 18 E. 41st St., New York 17, N.Y.
An informative and artistic film on the Japanese wood block print, an ancient art that is currently enjoying a renaissance here and abroad, giving examples of past and present masters of the art and a step-by-step description of making such prints.
(6)	Arts of Japan, 29 min., Sound—• Black arid White—U. S. Information Agency. Made by Tokyo Films. Released for public educational use in the U.S. through U.S. Office of Education, Washington, D. C.
Tells the story of a young American who visits artists of Japan, including the painter Gyokudo Kawai, tea master Soshitsu Sen, actors Koshiro Matsumoto and Manzu-buro Umewaka, potter Shaji Hamada, and woodblock artist Shiko Mumakata. Includes scenes from the Noh and the Kabuki dramas.
(7)	A Japanese Fishing Village, 18 min., Sound—Black and White, Young America Films, 18 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y.
A day in the life of a Japanese fishing village, centered around the family of Ki-mura the fisherman. We see the intimate details which go to make up the life of the village—at home, school, recreation, marketing, and work. Narration is in English by an American-born Japanese.
(8)	Island Nation, 20 min., Sound— United World Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York.
Living is difficult in an area where farmland and other resources are limited. Japan is trying to overcome some of the difficulties of a densely populated country by working hard and by developing industries.
(9)	Japanese Family, 23 min., Sound— International Film Foundation, 1600 Broadway, New York
Produced by Julien Bryan, this film tells the story of the Kawai family, silk-weavers of Kyoto, Japan. We see them at work at their looms, preparing meals, visiting the park, and preparing to observe a Japanese New Year’s celebration. The story is accompanied by authentic Japanese music performed on native instruments.
(10)	Jafjan: The Land and the People,
11 min., Sound—Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago. 111.
How 83 million people support themselves in a mountainous island nation, small in area, with little arable land, is shown in this film. It includes also the cultivation of rice, tea, silkworms, and timber, and the development of modern industries in Japan’s post-World War II era.
(11)	Creative Art in Japan, 20 min., Color—Brandon Films, Inc., 200 W. 57th Street, New York.
Robert Gardner’s uniquely integrated film reveals aspects of the art of Japan as original works and not as reflections of art of other nations. Commentary is based on early poetic and historical texts. Miisic from various periods is played by Japanese string musicians.
(12)	Rica Farming in Japan, 12 min.,
color—University	of Michigan,
A-V Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
This film was photographed in Japan and tells the complete story of rice, the staple food of the Orient. The fascinating processes of rice planting, cultivating, harvesting,
and cooking are shown in authentic detail. This film will be especially useful in social studies and geography classes and on all levels from later elementary through adult.
(13)	Letter to a Friend, 20 min., Sound — United World Government Films.
This film was produced by the United States Army for civilian use in Japan. It describes the establishment of a “pen-pals” club in Japan in order that Japanese boys and girls may correspond directly with boys and girls of their own age in the United States.
Filmstrips
(1)	A Visit to Japan—Color—46 frames Audio-Visual Division, Popular Science Publishing Co., 353 Fourth Avenue, New York.
The filmstrip begins with a map to show location and a sequence on our country’s relation to Japan in recent years. We then go to Tokyo to visit shops, theatres, homes, industries and to the country to visit rice farms, tea groves and silkworm raisers. Scenes of fishing, pearl diving as well as a visit tq a Japanese school are included.
(2)	Japan—The Land and its People— Color, 43 frames, Society for Visual Education, Chicago, 111.
Presents the economic, social and political activity of Japan in its role as an important Asiatic power. Physical features of the country are presented in especially prepared maps, some of which compare Japan with the United States.
(3)	Japan—Life and Industries of the People—45 frames, Society for Visual Education, Chicago, 111.
The various industries are discussed in some detail, giving insight into the lives of the Japanese. Both maps and photographs are used.
(4)	The New Face of Japan—47 frames, New York Times, Times Square, New York.
Produced in 1949, the filmstrip shows the steps taken by the Occupation forces to make Japan democratic. It discusses economic difficulties, dependability of Japan as a future ally, and leads up to the question of when we will sign a peace treaty and withdraw our occupation forces.
(5)	Japan: Land and People—Color— 65 frames. Visual Education Services, Audio Visual Corp., 116 New-burg St., Boston, Mass.
A visit to the Japan of today (1950) — the country, the people, work dress customs and religion. Wartime destruction is shown, but the total effect is one leading to interest and good-will.