Pan A tí ERrCA/v
T-2	World Airways Teacher
CPA/V AmCMCAH
World Airways Teacher	^ : : j
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
NEW LOOK FOR W.A.T.
Starting our twelfth year, we thought it was about time for a new look, so we have it at the top of page one.
Also we’ve made a slight change in the arrangement of the teaching unit which begins across the way. It’s always been the theory that the unit could be slipped out for filing—following that theory we’re numbering the pages of the unit now from 1 to 12, and on the back you’ll find three little dots which will help to guide for punching, in case the units are to go into a binder.
Speaking of binders, we’ll have them soon. Arrangements have been made to reprint back units and provide binders for them. The collection of reprints, plus binder, will be available about January 1, at a price of one dollar. We ran a little survey to see if such would be welcome. Response was overwhelmingly in favor, so we’ll have it. About January 1. We’re not taking orders yet, but if you want to send in a post card reserving a set of reprints and binders we’ll send an order blank the minute we’re ready to supply the package.
N.A.E.C. AT YOUR SERVICE
Evan Evans, the new full-time Executive Director of the National Aviation Education Council, has set up shop at 1025 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington, D. C. and stands ready to serve teachers who want information on aviation education.
Orders for N.A.E.C. publications now should be sent to the address in the preceding paragraph, and as a convenience to World Airways Teacher’s readers, these publications, and their prices, are listed below:
“Look to the Sky” is a thirty-two page, two color, 8Ejx11 pictorial presentation of the basic aviation facts for elementary readers. Single copy .30; 25 to 99, .25 each; 100 or more .20 each.
“Jets” is a thirty-two page, two color, 8^x11 illustrated story of the jet airplanes. Single copy, .50; 25 to 99, .45 each; 100 or more, .35 each.
“Helicopters”, also a thirty-two page, 8j^xll, illustrated story tells how helicopters operate and describes the unique services they render. Single copy, .50; 25 to 99 .45 each; 100 or more .35 each.
“A Day in the Life of a Jet Test Pilot” describes the job of this colorful flyer, and is illustrated with photographs of the special clothing and equipment he uses. Single copy,
.50; 25 to 99 .45 each; 100 or more .40 each.
“Aircraft Number 116”, similar in size and format to the booklets listed above, is the story of an aircraft plant, told in terms of the assembly of aircraft 116. Single copy, .50; 25 to 99 .45 each; 100 or more .40 each.
“Aviation Activities” is a reading readiness color and cut-out booklet. May be used with “Look to the Sky”, or independently. Single copy, .30; 25 to 99, .25 each; 100 or more, .20 each.
A post card request to Dr. Evans will bring you a circular describing the books in more detail and an order blank.
Membership in the National Aviation Education Council is available to any teacher for dues of $3.00 a year, for which members receive all new N.A.E.C. publications and many other aviation education publications. All inquiries should be addressed to National Aviation Education Council, 1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington 6, D. C.
PAA TRAVEL FELLOWS
Thirty-four graduate students from Latin American countries have entered United States colleges and universities this fall under fellowship grants provided by Pan American World Airways and Panagra in the 18th year of the airline program to promote cultural relationships and friendship between the Americas
This year’s students will make a total of 281 residents of Latin American countries who have benefited from the airline’s fellowship program, inaugurated in 1937 as the first international education plan of its kind in the world.
The fellowships were started following the signing of the Inter-American Treaty of Cultural Relations in Buenos Aires in 1936, which provided for an exchange of students between the Latin American Republics and the United States.
Free round trip transportation is provided by Pan American for students selected by the Institute of International Education. These advanced students do at least one year’s graduate work or research in this country, after the Institute has arranged with leading colleges and universities to grant tuition and maintenance scholarships, so that the whole expense of study in the United States is covered.
ROUND THE WORLD GAME
The only chimpanzee to combine TV acting with round the world globe trotting— he appears on the Dave Garroway program Today, on the NBC network, made his flight round the world on Pan American World Airways—J. Fred Muggs now has his own Round the World Game.
It is a parcheesi-type game, in which the counters move across the Atlantic to London and Paris, on across Europe to Rome, then to Ciro, Beirut, New Delhi, Bangkok, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Wake Island, Honolulu, Los Angeles and back to New York. This is if the throw of the dice keeps them on the direct route. If the luck of the game introduces detours the route may include Greenland, Casablanca and many others.
The J. Fred Muggs Round the World Game was introduced by Sami. Gabriel Sons & Co. and is sold in toy departments.
SANTA CLAUS WILL ANSWER
A real letter from Santa Claus, posted from the frozen north, can once again add« spice to the joys of Christmas for childrei^
As in previous years, Pan American will do everything but lick the stamps and write the letter—^parents and other well-wishers have to do that.
The letters will be posted near the North Pole and they will carry the postmark of North Pole Station, Fairbanks, Alaska, from out of which Santa operates during the busy Christmas season. Last year more than 100,000 children were astonished and delighted to find such letters addressed to them and signed by Santa. Here’s how to go about it:
1.	Classify these instructions as “Top Christmas Secret” to prevent their falling into the hands of children.
2.	Get Santa Claus writing paper and envelopes from any Pan American office or authorized travel agent.
3.	Write the letter on the stationery and sign it Santa Claus.
4 Put the letter in the Santa envelope and address it to the offspring. Don’t forget to put a 6-cent stamp on it.
5.	In another envelope, mail the Santa letter by Air Mail to Pan American World Airways, Fairbanks, Alaska, its nearest station to the North Pole, or return it to the Pan American office or travel agent’s office where the stationery was obtained.
6.	The parent’s letter should reach Pan American at Fairbanks before December 16
If received by Fairbanks before that date, the child will receive the envelope and letter with the Santa Claus imprint well before Christmas.
CHINA CLIPPER MODEL
A solid scale model kit which has recently appeared on the counters of hobby stores, chain stores and department stores is a representation of the “China Clipper”, famous as the airplane which inaugurated trans-Pacific air service 18 years ago.
Faithfully reproducing even such details as the corrugated skin with which this Martin-built flying boat was covered, the kit consists of wooden parts easily glued together, and provides decals for the markings as seen in the accompanying illustration.
Strombeck-Becker is the manufacturer of the kit, which retails at $1. Other PAA models in the Strombeck-Becker line are the Douglas DC-6 and the Boeing flying boat of the “California Clipper” type. Because of the ease of assembly and low cost, these models are especially appropriate for classroom displays.