Pan A me RrCA h
World Airways Teacher
Page T-3
WESTERN ROUND THE WORLD — The Western Illinois State College round-world group photographed just prior to departure from San Francisco. Tour Conductor George Mulder is at extreme right.
ORIENTATION
and during the tour, an effort was made to give students an opportunity to ask questions and discuss problems which to them seemed of importance in learning about the land, the people, and the institutions of Mexico. The instructors, in semi-formal lectures, developed the background and aroused the interest necessary for such discussion activities.
Special orientation in the social sciences was, of course, provided students in this area. However, a number of general sessions, designed for all tour members, were held. In these sessions the instructor discussed topography, resources, history, and current problems of Mexico. Attention was given to the contributions of past and present leaders in Mexican government such as Hidalgo, Morelos, Juarez, Diaz, and Cardenas. Characteristics of the three general periods of Mexican history, namely Pre-Columbian, Spanish, and Revolutionary were pointed out. The historical time line chart in the tour study book was explained.
Social science students were assigned library research work in areas of particular interest to them. The results of this research were summarized, duplicated, and made available to all tour members. In some cases the results of individual research were shared with the group by means of oral reports presented on the bus. Special care was exercised to prevent these reports from interfering with observations of conditions and situations the opportunity for which, in a bus traveling 45 miles per hour, appears suddenly and just as suddenly disappears. At the same time, well organized oral reports presented at well chosen times were of great value in changing
an observation from a casual examination into a meaningful learning experience.
It should be pointed out that there was a wide difference between the activities in, for instance, the social science area required of students taking social science credit and those who were not. However, it was believed that certain understandings and appreciations of Mexico normally included in the social science tour courses were desirable for all tour members. This was also the case in the other academic areas.
The social science instructor used graphic materials, motion pictures, strip film, and slides to enrich the orientation activities. A great deal of pictorial instructional material was obtained from the college instructional material file compiled on previous tours to Mexico.
Mexico is abundant in evidences of Pre-Columbian culture. Staff members of the social science department devoted considerable time, in general orientation sessions, to explaining such cultures as the Mayan, Toltec, and Aztec. Comparisons, for instance, were made between the Toltec and Aztec on the one hand and the Greek and Roman on the other. The students were urged to be especially alert to painting, sculpturing, and architecture which would reflect the great Indian cultures. Among other films, “Arts and Crafts in Mexico” was studied.
One of the topics receiving most attention of the biology students was Mexican agriculture. A great deal of study was carried out in this area because Mexico’s economy is basically agricultural; the typical Mexican family is a rural family. One of the motion pictures viewed by biology students was “Crops of the Americas”.
Education students based their study on Kneller’s “Education of the Mexican Nation”. They prepared reports, viewed motion pictures such as “Schools of Mexico” and made extensive use of other visual materials.
The college library played a most important part in the orientation program. Instructors in the various tour courses assigned reading from prepared bibliographies including both books and periodicals. Library staff members placed books on reserve when requested and assisted students to locate materials. Because many tour members came from other colleges and universities, the job of assisting them in learning effective use of the library was one of considerable value. When needed, special arrangements were made to keep the library open when normally it would be closed. In unusual cases arrangements were made to take certain library materials along on the tour.
All facilities of the visual education department of the college were placed at the disposal of tour members. Room arrangements were made for previewing all types of film materials and staff members were available to aid students to select materials most appropriate for their interests. Phonographs and Spanish language records were used by those wishing to spend extra time in the development of language abilities.
MODEL AIRCRAFT
(Continued from Page T-4)
tions are based upon engine piston displacement: America class is for models powered with engines having maximum piston displacement of .05 cubic inches. In the International class engines up to .1525 cubic inches are eligible.
One reason for using the term “International” for the larger engine class in PAA-Load is that these engines correspond to a standard engine size in the metric system of measurement used in many foreign countries. An engine of .1525 cubic inches displacement is equal in size to a metric-measured engine of 2.5 cubic centimeters. Thus, these engines may compete upon even terms.
For the .05 cubic inch engine (America Class) there is no exact equivalent in metric-measured engines. The nearest thing to it is the 1 cc. engine, which is larger and more powerful. If these two engines are to compete against each other it is necessary to introduce a handicapping system, by requiring that the plane with the 1 cc. engine carry additional payload.
In addition to the standard PAA-Load Events described above there is a special contest in which contestants see who can lift the most cargo, keep it aloft for at least 40 seconds, and make a safe landing. This one is for the experts, and has been a real challenge to the modelers. The success they have achieved is indicated by the fact that a real airplane will lift payload equal to about one-third to one-half of its weight empty. In the Clipper Cargo Contest, the record is held by James Lang of Canoga Park, Calif., with a weight of 40 ounces of payload flown in a model weighing 12 ounces. Lang’s model carried payload equal to almost four times the weight of the model empty.