Pan American
World	Airways Teacher	Hawaiian Islands
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Departing San Francisco, or Los Angeles, or Seattle, with Honolulu your destination, you may board a local Clipper, or you may fly on a through schedule.
Referring to a 2400-mile non-stop flight as a “local” schedule seems a little strange, doesn’t it? But it is quite logical. The through schedule is around the world, so of course the flight to Hawaii is “local” by comparison.
The reason, of course, is that the number of passengers who want to go to Hawaii and back is considerably more than those continuing around the world. Of 31 PAA departures each week from the West Coast, 18 are round the world flights, 12 are destined for Honolulu only.
This frequency of service, by the way, is a little startling to Clipper passengers who recall flying to Hawaii no more than 15 years ago when there was one departure per week for the Paradise of the Pacific.
Local or express, it makes little difference. Equipment and service are identical, and you simply pick the departure which leaves at the time of day desired. You may prefer the overnight flight, or you may wish to travel during the day so that you can enjoy every minute of the experience and not be missing anything through being asleep.
There is a choice of type of service. Those who want first class select the President service, gaining the advantages of roominess, the Sleeperette seats with fully reclining backs and footrests, and a variety of deluxe services for convenience and comfort. Budget-minded travelers select the Rainbow, or tourist type service, foregoing luxury in order to take advantage of an attractive savings in fare.
All Clippers now flying to Hawaii offer a choice between President and Rainbow service—on the same aircraft. There is one passenger cabin for first class, another for tourist service, and this seating arrangement goes by the name of “dual configuration”, configuration being the term used for arrangement of seats and other equipment used by passengers.
This is a journey overseas, and to that extent is like going abroad. Otherwise, it differs in no important respect from traveling within the United States, for it is traveling within the United States. For that matter, you can travel beyond the Hawaiian Islands to Wake Island and Guam and still be in the United States. Not until arrival in Japan, 4,000 miles to the northwest of Honolulu, or in the Philippines, still farther, but almost directly west of the Islands, will the traveler reach foreign soil.
And since this overseas journey to Hawaii is between points in the United States, there is no question of passport, visa, customs and immigration, as there would be in traveling to a foreign country.
So, an air trip from the West Coast to the Hawaiian Islands is comparable to an air trip across the continent in many respects—even the time is about the same, approximately ten hours.
As already mentioned, we may depart from Seattle, San Francisco or Los Angeles. Let’s say we are leaving from San Francisco, traveling overnight, and using the President or first class service.
The time table says our flight is scheduled to leave San Francisco at 23 :59. The twenty-four hour clock is used in PAA time tables —23:59 is the equivalent of 11:59 P.M. or one minute before midnight. Why not call it midnight? Because some time table readers might question whether midnight of a certain date is the beginning of that day, or its end. The time 23:59 cannot be so mistaken, it has to be at the end of the day.
So we check in at the big, new, modern air terminal building at San Francisco’s International Airport by 11:30 P.M.
About fifteen minutes before scheduled departure time, our flight is announced. We go aboard, the stewardess directs us to the seats reserved for us, we settle down, adjust seat belts, and wait for the takeoff. Promptly at 23:59 the Clipper moves away from the ramp, proceeds to the end of the runway, pauses there for a few minutes while the crew run up the engines and check all the operating instrument dials for final assurance that all is in mechanical readiness, and then
start down the runway. We gather speed, we are airborne, we gain altitude, and finally swing toward the west and our vacation in the Paradise of the Pacific.
Once we are at cruising altitude there will be an after-midnight snack. Then the purser and stewardesses will help adjust the Sleeperette seats—letting the backs down, and pulling out the leg rests from underneath the seats. We’ll be given blankets and pillows, the lights will be turned out, and the drone of the engines, coming faintly through the sound-insulated walls, will lull us to sleep.
Some—especially those making their first flights—prefer to sit up. And since this is the Strato Clipper, there is provision for those with this inclination. On the lower deck, reached via a circular stair case, is the Clipper lounge, where we may sit and chat, and where one of the cabin attendants is on duty to serve drinks, either alcoholic or the soft variety, as we may prefer.
The lounge is available as long as it is wanted, but one by one the passengers give in to drowsiness, and return to the main passenger compartment for a night’s sleep—a wise move, for one naturally does not want to be sleepy on his first day in Hawaii.
We are awakened by sunlight coming in the windows, to find that the cabin crew has breakfast ready—fruit juice, cereal, eggs, bacon toast, sweet rolls and coffee. Our appetite is good, we eat heartily, and finish just in time to look out the window and spot Diamond Head, which is land fall as we approach the island of Oahu, whether by air or surface.
At Honolulu, too, the air terminal is called International Airport, and it is one of the busy airports of the United States and the World. Not only does traffic for Hawaii come to this airport, but in addition, most of the trans-Pacific airplanes cross the ocean by way of Honolulu.
We land, the Clipper rolls to the ramp, and we descend the stairs.
There are our friends, waiting for us with flower leis to drape over our shoulders. We are ready for our Hawaii vacation.
October, 1955