12
Pam Auer ran
World Alrmvs Teacher
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
By Louis S. Goodman
Special Lecturer, Audio-Visual Methods, School of Education, City College of N. Y.
THE HAWAIIAN ISLANDS
Motion Pictures
THE 49TH STATE, 16 min., sound, black and white. McGraw-Hill Textfilms, 330 West 42nd St., New York, N. Y. Gives the details on Hawaiian Islands position in its petition for statehood. In doing this, the film shows the economic factors, the political and historical developments of the islands.
HAWAII, PARADISE PLUS, 25 min., sound, color. Hawaii Press Bureau, 1040 National Press Bldg., Washington 4, D. C. Highlights the economy of the Hawaiian Islands, through its first sugar production facilities which it shows from its initial planting stage through the milling processes. HAWAII TODAY, 22 min., sound, color. Baptist South-Foreign Mission Board, 2037 Monument Avenue, Richmond 20, Va.
This is a study of the Hawaiian people, giving a good background of their daily lives, including the festival of Kamehameha. Contrasts the old and the new in terms of the islands’ agriculture, trade, and transportation facilities.
HAWAIIAN NATIVE LIFE, 11 min., sound, black and white. Encyclopoedia Britannica Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Ave., Wilmette, 111.
This film produced in collaboration with Dr. Margaret Mead. It portrays the native economy, showing the dependence of the natives upon the ocean and their agricultural use of the land. Also presents scenes of home and school life, sports, arts and crafts, and the famous native feast—the luau. Includes scenes of harvesting and producing pineapple and sugar cane products.
MODERN HAWAII, 10 min., sound, black and white. Coronet Productions, Coronet Bldg., Chicago 1, Illinois. Explains the significance of the Hawaiian Islands as a military base and describes the geological origin of the territory. Shows some of the modern industries and the various walks of life of Hawaiians. VOLCANOES OF HAWAII NATIONAL PARK, 12 min., sound, color. Hawaiian Natural History Association, Hawaiian National Park, Hawaii.
Shows some of the dramatic recent eruptions of Hawaiian volcanoes, including Kilauea’s lake of lava, Mauna Loa flow of fountains, and other lava cascades and courses, climaxed by the 1950 lava flows into the ocean.
WINGS TO HAWAII, 31 min, sound, color. Ideal Pictures, Inc, 58 East South Water St, Chicago 1, Illinois.
Sponsored by Pan American World Airways, this film depicts a young couple spending their honeymoon in Hawaii on the beaches and in the mountain villages in Hawaii.
HAWAII-THE LAND OF SUGAR, 10 min, sound, black and white. Hawaii Press Bureau, 1040 National Press Bldg,
Washington 4, D. C.
This is the story on film of Hawaiian sugar and the people who produce it. DISCOVER HAWAII, 30 min, sound, color. Hawaii Press Bureau, 1040 National Press Bldg, Washington 4, D. C. The visitor is shown typical scenes of Honolulu, its volcanoes, surfboard riding at Waikiki, industrial activities, and the customs of the Hawaiian people. HAWAII-OUR NEXT STATE, 26 min, sound, black and white. McGraw-Hill Textfilms, 330 West 42nd St, New York, N. Y.
Produced by the March of Time, this is a geographic survey of the Hawaiian Islands and the life of the people who make their homes there.
HAWAIIAN FEATHERWORK, 11 min, sound, color. Cine’Pic Hawaii, 1847 Fort St, Honolulu 13, Hawaii. Demonstrates the art of featherwork in the making of colorful leis, and shows the craftsmanship in making capes, cloaks and unusual helmets. This tradition of long ago is still present today.
ERUPTION OF MAUNA LOA, 11 min, sound, color. Cine’Pic Hawaii, 1847 Fort St, Honolulu 13, Hawaii. Shows the explosion of lava and steam geysers exuded from the 13,000 ft. crater atop Mauna Loa with lava flowing down the side of the mountain burning everything in its pathway to the ocean.
HAWAII: U.S.A, 21 min, sound, black and white. Bailey Films, Inc, 6509 De-Longpre Ave, Hollywood 28, Calif. Portrays the history, culture, beauty, commerce and racial groups of the Hawaiian Islands.
THE RUNAWAYS, 11 min, sound, color. Cine’Pic Hawaii, 1847 Fort St, Honolulu 13, Hawaii.
This film tells the story of two youngsters who leave their homes in the Hawaiian countryside to seek a new life in the city. In the course of their adventures, many of the Hawaiian customs in the country and the city are compared.
Filmstrips
ASPIRATION:	STATEHOOD, 55
frames, silent, with captions, black and white. New York Times, 220 West 43rd St, New York, N. Y.
Consists of two sections, the first on Hawaii, and the second on Alaska. Presents the background of arguments for and against statehood including the history and economy of each area.
VOLCANIC	ORIGIN AND
GROWTH, 32 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Pat Dowling Pictures, 1056 South Robertson Blvd, Los Angeles 35, Calif.
Presented in two parts: “How the Islands Were Formed” and “How the Islands Look Today”. Demonstrates in interesting fashion just how rain, wind and oceanic movements
Hawaiian Islands
have changed the Hawaiian Islands into habitable land with a tropical climate. PEOPLE OF HAWAII, 42 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Pat Dowling Pictures, 1056 South Robertson Blvd, Los Angeles 53, Calif.
A two part filmstrip showing where the people of Hawaii came from, beginning with earliest Polynesian days and including an influx of later peoples including Caucasians, Japanese, Chinese and Filipinos. HAWAIIAN ISLANDS, 46 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Informative Classroom Pictures Publishers, 40 Iona Ave, N.W, Grand Rapids 2, Mich.
A basic filmstrip presentation including a large pictorial map showing life in the Hawaiian Islands.
MILLING SUGAR CANE IN HAWAII, 76 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Hawaii Press Bureau, 1040 National Press Bldg, Washington 4, D. C.
Demonstrates the processes required in converting sugar cane into raw sugar and how the product is shipped to the mainland for final refining.
REFINING HAWAIIAN CANE SUGAR, 52 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Hawaii Press Bureau, 1040 National Press Bldg, Washington 4, D. C. Depicts the arrival of raw sugar from Hawaii at a California port and traces the processing of the product through various stages into the final package of sugar.
BIBLIOGRAPHY — HAWAII Boy of the Islands—Lipkind—Harcourt The First Book of Hawaii—Lantz—Watts The Hawaiians-An Island People—Pratt-— Scribner
Picture Story of Hawaii—O’Neill—McKay In Hawaii a Hundred Years—Pratt—Childrens Reading Service Shark Hole—Burglon—-Hale Hawaiian Islands—Edelman—Nelson Our Hawaii—London—Macmillan Hawaii-the 49th State—Clark—Doubleday Hawaiian Islands-Collected Works—Stro-ven—Macmillan
Hawaiian Islands—Carpenter-—Carpenter All the Best in Hawaii—Clark—Dodd Hawaii, U.S.A.-—Davis & Armitage— Stokes
Paradise of the Pacific—Faris—Doubleday The Last King of Paradise—Burns—Pellegrini & Cudahy
Hawaii-—Kujkendall—Prentice Hall Hawaii’s War Years—Allen—University of Hawaii Press
Islands of the Pacific—Daniel—Putnam Flawaiian Tapestry—Withington—Harper Spell of the Pacific—Stroven & Day—Macmillan
Islands of the Pacific—Alexander—American Tract Society
Native Peoples of the Pacific World— Keesing—Macmillan
Thru the Philippines and Hawaii—Carpenter—Carpenter
Bright Islands-—-Colum—Yale University Press
First Book of Hawaii—Epstein—Watts Hawaii, Gem of the People—Lewis— Random