Hawaiian Islands
Pan Amer rcA y
Wo rid Airways Trachrr
7
INDUSTRY, TRADE AND TOURISM
By Lou A. Phillips
Last year the Bank of Hawaii announced that in 1953 the Islands had attained a billion-dollar-a-year economy.
The story behind this development is a unique one for although Hawaii was the last important island area of the Pacific to be discovered it was the first to be modernized.
Five words describe Hawaii’s past development, present problems and future in the Atomic Air Age : sugar, pineapples, visitors, defense and statehood. This surface simplicity is misleading, however, for behind each word lie complex problems, some of which have been solved while others remain to be solved.
The Island of Hawaii contains nearly twice the combined area of all other islands in the Territory. It is the largest producer of sugar, the largest producer of cattle and the only producer of coifee. Outside of Oahu, it is the largest manufacturing area. Business centers in the port of Hilo account for 41% of the Island’s population. The productive activities of Hawaii encircle the island, with the exception of lava covered sectors that cut across productive land, particularly in the south. The dollar volume of sugar is well over three times that of all other products combined. Sugar production extends along the entire east coast and in the north. Coifee production extends along the west coast, and beef cattle are raised in the northwest sector with ranches scattered throughout the upland areas. With minor exceptions, the mountainous central portions of the island are useful only as forest land and as watersheds.
Oahu is the only island in which other activities overshadow agricultural production. Comprising only 9.2 per cent of the land area of the Territory, Oahu contains three-fourths of the population and constitutes 85% of the Hawaiian market. This is due to the fact that the island is the center of Hawaiian tourist trade, defense activity, shipping and air transportation. Oahu is an important producer of sugar, pineapples, meat, milk and vegetables. Sugar is produced on the northern and north central coastal plain and on the southern coastal plain west of Honolulu. Pineapple production centers in a high valley between the sugar producing lands. There is also a considerable amount of diversified agriculture including milk, eggs, poultry, pork, vegetable crops, papaya and minor fruit products for local markets.
Kauai is a sugar and pineapple island. Sugar output is five times the value of pineapple output, but the combined dollar value of these two crops is over twelve times that of all other forms of production on the island. Central Kauai is occupied by high mountains and deep canyons cut by streams created by very heavy annual rainfall. There is little cultivation along the west coast. Production, therefore is scattered along a coastal semicircle, extending at some points into upland areas. In addition to sugar and pineapple, stock raising and truck farming
OAHU ISLAND — Surf riding in its two forms — by surf board, and by outrigger canoe, is illustrated in this photograph.
are carried on. Striking scenic attractions provide a basis for a small but growing tourist trade.
Maui, in contrast with the other Islands, has its production centered in a valley extending from coast to coast through the central part of the Island. There are smaller productive areas on the northwest and southeast coasts. Activity centers in sugar production with one plantation in the valley being the largest sugar producer in the United States. Pineapple production is second with truck garden crops being raised on the eastern slopes of the valley and cattle in several upland areas. Business and population center in the contiguous twin cities of Wailuku and Kahului at the northern end of the valley. The island possesses unusual scenic attractions. Pineapple production is the principal activity on the small island of Molokai and the only major activity on Lanai. Molokai also produces beef cattle and a limited number of vegetable crops.
Sugar
Sugar has been Hawaii’s principal industry and the keystone of its economy since 1860. It accounts for more than half of the gross income derived from Hawaiian products sent to the United States mainland. Normal annual production of somewhat more than one million tons of Hawaiian sugar represents about one-fourth the sugar produced under the American flag; about 12% of total American consumption; and about 2Y2% of world sugar production.
The sugar industry in Hawaii got its first real start in 1835 at Koloa plantation on the Island of Kauai, although there are records of earlier attempts at sugar manufacturing. Three New Englanders, operating as Ladd & Co., signed a lease that year with King Kamehameha III for 980 acres of land on the Island. Under great difficulties twelve acres were plowed and sowed to sugar cane. Iron rolls from the American mainland were brought in to crush the cane and a sugarmaking expert was imported from China. At the end of 1837, Ladd & Co. exported the product of its historic first crop consisting of 2.1 tons of raw sugar and 2,700 gallons of molasses.
Koloa, merged with another plantation and is still in existence today. However the first twelve acres have grown to 220,000, or about 5j4% of Hawaii’s total land. Cane is now cultivated by 28 separate plantation companies on four islands. $175,000,000 is invested in the industry, owned by about 14,000 individual stockholders, 70% of whom live in Hawaii. Plantations offer year round employment to about 20,000 persons.
An important feature of the industry is the fact that it has developed techniques and machinery not found elsewhere in the sugar-producing world. By careful planning, it has built up a year-round operation, an unbroken productive process wherein the element of timing is of paramount importance. This practice, spread over the entire industry, means that the ground is always producing, cane is irrigated, cultivated, and fertilized according to scientifically analyzed needs, and then harvested at a time when the greatest amount of sugar is available.
Two-thirds of Hawaii’s sugar comes from irrigated fields. The investment in irrigation alone is valued at over $44,000,000. Water is drawn from miles of aqueducts and tunnels. Huge pumping stations bring up subsurface waters, and one plantation daily pumps twice as much water as is consumed by the entire city of San Francisco.
The typical Hawaiian sugar plantation comprises a relatively large area, averaging about 8,000 acres in cane. This plantation, as all others of its kind in Hawaii, is more than a place of work. It is a complete community with homes, schools, churches, playgrounds, medical facilities, theaters and independent merchandising and service businesses. Employees of this combination farm and factory are permanent. There is no planting and harvesting season, for the Hawaiian sugar industry is a 12-month operation. Standards of living, health and recreation in sugar plantation communities are comparable to that in any other progressive rural American community.
Sugar is produced on the Islands of Hawaii, Kanai, Maui and Oahu. Approximately 36% of the Territory’s production comes from the Island of Hawaii; 22% from