Page T-4
Pa/v Amer/gìat
Was to Airways Teacher
PAA-LOAD EVENT AT “THE NATIONALS” — Clockwise, starting with lower left: Robert N. Patchin, of Hawthorne, Calif., was the winner in International Class, Jr. Sr. Division. C. O. Wright, winner of the Clipper Cargo Contest, Open Division, is Executive Secretary of the Kansas State Teachers Association, and a former president of the Academy of Model Aeronautics. Headquarters of PAA-Load Event at the NATS. Walt Mooney and his flying model of the PAA-Load Event lost model spotter aircraft.
Model Aircraft Carrying Payload Compete at "The Nationals"
When leading aviation modelers from all over the United States converged upon the U.S. Naval Air Station at Los Alamitos, Calif., in July for the National Championship Model Airplane Contest, their ranks included many of the outstanding PAA-Loaders, or in other words, modelers who build and fly models to carry payload and compete in the PAA-Load contest sponsored by Pan American World Airways.
One such was Willard Blanchard of Hampton, Va., whose victory in the International category, Open age division, of PAA-Load, contributed to the point total which made him Grand National Champion this year.
Pictured above are Robert N. Patchin of Hawthorne, Calif., a winner in the Junior-Senior age division, C. O. Wright, a tireless modeler whose regular job is being Executive Secretary of the Kansas State Teachers
Association, and Walt Mooney, whose scale model of a Mooney Mite carrying payload was not designed for or entered in competition, but nevertheless out-performed many of the entries which were built expressly to get flying time, rather than to represent a specific airplane.
Mooney’s model is a faithful scale representation of the small airplane Mooney Mite. (The full scale and model designers are not related.) The particular Mooney Mite which Walt Mooney copied is one which belongs to Dallas Sherman, the creator of PAA-Load flying. During the past summer Sherman flew his Mooney to a number of weekend model meets and fulfilled the role of lost model spotter. He would fly over the area, locate lost models and report their whereabouts by radio to a station on the ground, where the modelers would check in, get directions, and proceed to the spots where their models had come down.
PAA-Load flying, introduced by Pan American World Airways at the National championships of model flying in 1948, has spread rapidly to other contests throughout the United States and throughout the world.
Conceived as a type of competition which would pose for modelers some of the same problems that are faced by those who design, build and operate aircraft in commercial service, the PAA-Load rules and regulations were drafted by Mr. Sherman, who is a member of Pan American’s executive staff.
The contest is for free flight, gas-powered models, and the special requirement in PAA-Load is that the models shall carry payload, just as real aircraft carry passengers, mail and cargo. For models, the payload consists of a little wooden dummy representing crew and passengers, and a tiny carton representing cargo and mail. Weight and dimensions of dummy and cargo are specified by the rules. The winner is determined by duration of flight.
Currently the standard PAA-Load competitions are flown in two categories, the one for the smallest airplanes being called America Class, and the division for larger craft being the International Class. Size limita-
(Continued on Page T-3)