Hawaiian Islands
HULA TALK
World’s . . .
The population is 499,794, of whom 230,485 live in Honolulu, a city only slightly smaller than Miami, Florida.
Its territorial government is headed by a Governor—the first one was Sanford B. Dole (1900-1903), who also was the father of the pineapple industry. The legislature has a Senate of 15 and a House of Representatives with 30 members. A non-voting delegate is sent to Congress in Washington.
Hawaiians pay Federal taxes amounting to 136 million dollars (1953) a year, and are quick to point out that there are nine states whose citizens pay less. They’ll add that they have a population greater than any of four states and larger than that of any territory when admitted as a State, except Oklahoma. Their area of 6,450 square miles is larger than that of any of three states (Delaware, Connecticut and Rhode Island). For additional information on Hawaii as a future state, see the article on that subject.
Language
At first glance, the Hawaiian language may appear to be a difficult one, especially if you start with a word such as humuhumu-nukunukuapuaa, which means tiny fish. Actually, it is less difficult to learn than most, and has been described by linguists as one of the most fluid and melodious languages in the world.
This is due to the openness of the language. All five vowels—a, e, i, o and u are used, but only seven consonants : h, k, 1, m, n, p and w. There just aren’t any harsh sounds.
The Hawaii Visitors Bureau has compiled and published a primer of the Hawaiian language in which it gives these general rules of Hawaiian pronunciation:
“Sound each letter in a Hawaiian word. Vowels have the same sound as in Latin. Pronounce ‘a’ as in among; ‘e’ as in they; ‘i’ as in machine; ‘o’ as in no, and ‘u’ as in too. Consonants have the same sound as English with one exception—when a ‘w’ is next to the final (penultimate) letter in a word, it is sounded as a V, i.e., Hawi is pronounced ‘Ha-vee.’ but Waikiki is pronounced ‘Wai-kee-kee’ ”.
Two Hawaiian words are familiar to most on the mainland: Aloha, for either greeting or farewell (it also is the word for love) and lei, which means a garland of flowers.
Pan American
World	AlrwaysTeacher
Here are a few others, with pronunciations and meanings:
Aa	ah-ah	rough lava
honi	ho- nee	kiss
kala	ka-\ah	money
kane	ka-ney	man
pahoehoe pah-Zto-ee-Zm-ee smooth lava luau	loo-ow	taro leaf; feast
wahine	wa-hee-nee.	female
Aa, for rough lava, and pahoehoe, for the smooth variety, have become generally accepted scientific terms.
Tl,» Hula
No one fact is better known about Hawaii than this: that Hawaii is the home of the hula.
This probably is one more bit of evidence that a pretty girl is about the most interesting thing there is in the world—certainly the artists for advertisements and travel folders promoting Hawaii choose a lovely hula dancer for their subject more often than any other they might select. Travel to Hawaii
. . . Most Experienced . . .
and you’ll be greeted at airport or pier by Hawaiian music and hula dancers. Entertainment in the hotels and elsewhere will include more of the same.
Early missionaries were shocked by the abbreviated costumes which are traditional for the hula, and managed in some cases to hustle the dancers into cotton dresses. Then began a campaign to suppress the hula altogether, which came so close enough to being a success that King Kalakaua had to send couriers to remote mountain villages in the late 1800’s to find Hawaiians who knew the precious old chants and dance figures.
For the hula is not just another dance. It began as a religious rite, became the opera and ballet of Hawaii, and to some extent is the record of history and folk tales.
Originally, candidates for hula dancing entered a temple under the guidance of an expert leader, beginning as young as three and remaining until they were 16 years old. Laka was the goddess of the hula, and the little girls in the temple were dedicated to her. They seldom left the school enclosure, and only after graduation could they mingle with outsiders.
This tradition, of course, links the Hawaiians, as Polynesians, with the Orient, for the same strict training regime is typical for dancers in Thailand and elsewhere.
The original chants were intricately
worded, and were handed down by word of mouth. Because of this, and because of the temporary suppression of the hula, some meanings have been lost.
But the hula today is both beautiful and meaningful. It tells a story, as it delights the eye. And at a time when a hula costume has in it more material than two or three Bikini bathing suits, no one considers it abbreviated. The most widely known costume is the ti leaf skirt, Hawaiian version of the Samoan grass skirt. The ti plant has long dark green leaves which, when hung from a string around the waist, undulate gracefully with the motions of the dance. The hula also is performed in tapa-print kikepas. Tapa is a fabric made by pounding the bark of a tree—a kikepa is the Hawaiian version of the sarong of the South Sea, and is the costume most like that of the historical hula. The ti leaf skirt was introduced at the time King Kalakaua revived the hula, and sent to the mountains for people who knew it and could teach it.
The hula also is performed in a gathered short skirt known as hula pahu, voluminous muumuus or Mother Hubbards which carry the missionary influence, and in the graceful holoku, a Hawaiian formal gown with sweeping train.
The hula is a dance of the hands, the hips and the feet. The feet and hips start, and there are six basic steps : Kiiwawae, forward and back; hooleilei, swaying side to side; wawae holo or side step with hip wiggle; uwehe, which is a hop step ; ami, the gyrating hula wiggle; and ami poipoi, or around the island which is the ami repeated as the dancer moves around in a circle.
To understand the story told by the dance, one must understand the conventions of the hand movements. Waves, for example, are indicated by moving the hands as if moving up and down over waves. Rain is indicated by fluttering the fingers as the hand moves down. And so on, for hundreds of meanings. But it is not essential to understand all of this to appreciate the beauty of the hula, and too, sometimes the chants are rendered in English, although the authentic classical hulas will be chanted in Hawaiian.
Nor is it necessary for the visitor to remain among the spectators. One of the easiest things to do in Hawaii is to enroll in a hula class. And at the National aviation education workshops sponsored by the Civil
. . . Air Line