Pan Am er [CAN
Hawaiian Islands
Territorial government and by matching funds contributed by the business community. Its work focuses primarily on the promotion kf Hawaii as a host to world travelers. More recently the Honolulu Chamber of Commerce has also adopted a program for the development of hotel and other visitor facilities. Currently the volume of tourist trade and the construction of new tourist facilities are the most rapidly expanding fields of development in the Territory.
Hawaii first established a tourist promotion organization in 1892. However tourism developed very slowly and did not become significant until the 1920’s, a late comer in comparison with the sugar and pineapple industries. Subsequent growth reached a high of 22,000 visitors in 1929 but slumped to 10,000 in 1933. This slump was followed by a gradual rise to a pre-war peak of 32,000 in 1941. Thus three-fourths of the increase during the first half century of development occurred during the last two decades before World War II. Tourism ceased during World War II but recovered rapidly afterwards. The 1941 high was surpassed in 1948 when 36,000 visitors arrived in the Islands. The last seven years constitute by far the most striking period of growth. During 1948-55 visitors rose to well over three times the 1941 figure. In 1955 an estimated 106,000 visitors will come to Hawaii. Another sizeable group of transients enroute to points beyond Hawaii will make brief stopovers.
Defense
If there were no Hawaiian Islands, the defense potential of the United States mainland in the Pacific would be weaker than it is today. And if there were no defense establishment in Hawaii, the level of economic activity in the Islands would be very much lower than it is today. Hawaii is both the operational center of America’s defense forces in the Pacific area and a base of supply for the forward areas. Every working day streams of workers flow from Honolulu to the various military establishments.
An equally impressive stream of armed services personnel comes into Honolulu, when on leave to make purchases and to seek recreation. The arterial highways between the city and the defense installations are larger and carry more traffic than any others in the Territory.
At present, military personnel and their dependents, plus civilian employees of the armed forces and their dependents constitute twenty-six per cent of the total of all persons (military and civilian) in Hawaii. More than one person in every four in the Territory, or two in every five on the Island of Oahu, are thus directly dependent on defense activity for a living. They are an integral part of the Hawaiian community. Whether temporarily stationed in Hawaii, or employed in permanent defense activities, these , employees of the defense arm of the United States depend on and are served by Hawaii’s bus lines, telephones, electrical power systems, stores, theaters, restaurants and many other private enterprises Until 1937 the total of defense activity was small in comparison with that of the basic
plantation industries. Between 1937 and 1954, defense activity constituted the most dynamic factor affecting the Hawaiian economy, overshadowing any other activity in economic importance. The physical changes which the war brought to Hawaii were accompanied by fundamental changes in the political and social life of the Islands. The role of Hawaii as a defense area has been altered by the acquisition of the islands of the Trust Territory, the build-up of the defense potential at Guam, and the acquisition of bases in Japan, Okinawa and the Philippines. From a forward area prior to World War II, Hawaii has become the central Pacific reserve of manpower and material in support of all of these new outposts.
Although there was inevitably a contraction in the defense establishment with the cessation of war, postwar defense activity has remained at decidedly higher levels than prewar. By way of comparison, even the lowest annual expenditure by the Navy since the end of the war ($79 million in 1950) amounted to nine times the $8,864,000 spent by the Navy in 1934, whereas Naval expenditures in Hawaii in 1953 were $176,-560,000 or twenty times the 1934 figures. In 1954-55, defense continues to be the largest activity in Hawaii—the largest source of Island income and the greatest employer of Hawaiian manpower.
Statehood
The head of the Hawaiian Territory is a Governor. The legislative branch of the Islands’ government consists- of a Senate of 15 members and a House of Representatives of 30 members. Hawaii elects a Delegate to the United States Congress who has the right to debate and to serve as a member of committees of the House of Representatives but who has no vote.
Hawaii has carried on a steady campaign for statehood. In the 83rd Congress, both the House and Senate passed a statehood bill for Hawaii, but the Senate version was combined with statehood for Alaska. Since
the combined measure did not reach conference before the end of the 83rd Congress, Hawaii again failed to achieve statehood, and will have to start the long legislative process and drive for enactment of its statehood measure all over again when the 84th Congress convenes early in January, 1956. In their effort to achieve statehood the people of Hawaii have already expended almost one million dollars through authorization of their duly elected legislators. The Hawaiian Statehood Commission has compiled, published and disseminated much information in support of the movement for admission of the territory to statehood. A state constitution was drawn up and agreed upon by the Delegates of the People of Hawaii in convention at Iolani Palace in Honolulu on July 22, 1950.
Hawaii has a highly specialized economy, tightly geared to the mainland market. Ha-waiians specialize in producing a few things for the mainland and in turn depend upon the mainland for most of their supplies. Only 12% of Hawaiian production is for local use. 88% is used to pay for things needed but which are not or cannot be produced in the Islands. The following is Hawaii’s Account with the Mainland and other means as reported by the Bank of Hawaii:
In 1954 the Islands exported Hawaiian products amounting to $263 million; the Federal Government made expenditures in Hawaii amounting to $306 million ; mainland firms and individuals purchased goods and services in Hawaii amounting to $80 million ; earned dividends, interest and profits from overseas investments amounted to $24 million ; and remittance from workers in forward areas and other personal gifts amounted to $10 million.
Total Hawaiian income in mainland dollars in 1954 was $683 million while total expenditures amounted to $636 million. Thus the Territory of Hawaii earned $47 million more mainland dollars in 1954 than it spent. The people of Hawaii wish that this balance sheet could be called a State Balance Sheet instead of a Territorial one.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
Prom the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons’’
HAWAII
LOCATION . . . The Hawaiian Islands lie approximately 2,100 miles southwest of San Francisco, a distance about equal to that between San Francisco and New York. Honolulu is about the same distance north of the equator as Havana, Cuba.
CHARACTERISTICS . .. Wonderful beaches, tropical flowers, hula dancers and flower leis are part of the fiber of the Hawaiian Islands. Here you have the additional delight of being on home territory yet finding it as different as anything you have ever imagined. You can swim at the perfect beaches, luxuriate at wonderful hotels, go deep-sea fishing, learn to ride a surfboard, and enjoy the wonderful climate. It’s a romantic spot, ideal for a vacation.
POPULATION . . . 499,794, of which 230,485 live in Honolulu, a city almost as large as Miami.
SIZE . . . The area of the island group is 6,441 square miles, of which the largest island, Hawaii, is over 4,000 square miles, approximately the size of Connecticut and Rhode Island together. Oahu is 40 miles long and 26 wide.
CAPITAL . . . Honolulu.
GOVERNMENT ... As a territory, Hawaii has its own legislature of 15 Senators and 30 Representatives elected by the various counties, a Governor appointed by the President, and a non-voting delegate in Congress.
HOW TO GET THERE . . . By Pan American Clipper, flying time about 10 hours from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland or Seattle. By ship from San Francisco, 5 days.