

it^
LA •	'	a :: A: a ■
.

Pa/\í Æmerîca/v
I.IBR
OCT Sí PUN AMERICAN
1
WOOLS'
World Airways Teacher
a- -
WÉákélM^MáMiíM- lì íi¿¿J!Éui :
■
llllBlMlllllilillMllli
::m>s:ii:ifmix~i«mmmémmaœ
October, 1955
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XII No. 1
ORIENTATION FOR AN EDUCATIONAL TOUR
An educational travel project for college credit which starts with a well-planned orientation session is well on its way to success.
Many college organizers, of course, know how to set up and conduct orientation ^courses, but they don’t all publish their procedures as Western Illinois State College at Macomb has done in “A Travel Study Tour Through Mexico,” a publication which will be quoted extensively, with permission, in this article.
Under the guidance of President F. A. Beu and Visual Education Director A. B. Roberts, Western operates tours within the U. S., throughout the Western Hemisphere, and Round-the-World.
Round-the-World was added to the offerings of Western Illinois this year—the group is pictured (cut on Page T-3) just prior to boarding the Clipper Southern Cross at San Francisco. Itinerary was San Francisco, Honolulu, Wake Island, Tokyo, Kyoto, Hong Kong, Bangkok, Calcutta, Delhi, Agra, Karachi, Beirut, Jerusalem, Cairo, Istanbul, Athens, Rome, Geneva, Paris, Amsterdam, London, and New York, thence via United Air Lines to Chicago.
Their leader was George Mulder of the Western Illinois faculty and a veteran tour conductor. Dr. Mulder prepared the orientation material for the tour, which was for credit (up to twelve quarter hours) and the group consisted of thirty teachers in addition to Dr. Mulder and an assistant.
Although it was Western Illinois’ first round-the-world tour, the group had the benefit of twenty years’ experience at Western in the planning and conducting of ^educational tours. Many tour members are repeaters, and the college now offers a special award in field study in the United States and foreign areas for those who have completed five tours with the college for credit, have earned a minimum of forty quarter hours of credit and have included tours to
INaaa 7a I /iW I n
(1) the United States, (2) North America and (3) other areas such as Central America, Round the World, South America, The Orient, Europe, Australia and Africa.
In each case, a Western Illinois tour is preceded by an orientation class, on campus, the general lines of which follow those for the orientation on Mexico which prepared a group for a trip to Mexico, and which was described in the publication “A Travel Study Tour Through Mexico” above mentioned. The section on orientation is quoted in full:
The morning of the first day of orientation brought together the entire tour group. An instructor in geography traced the tour route and described the industries of the major cities to be visited. Special characteristics of the climate and agricultural economy along the tour route were pointed out. The tour biology instructor explained the maps in the tour guide book which had been prepared by the visual education department. Special attention was given to the economic geography chart and the vegetation map of Mexico. The tour director gave necessary instructions relative to baggage, money exchange, insurance, and medicinal needs.
During the afternoon individuals met in their respective classes. Course requirements were explained, class projects were assigned, and individual library research topics selected. Later in the afternoon the Spanish instructor directed the first of a series of general language sessions aimed at developing a simple conversational ability involving phrases of courtesy, shopping expressions, expressions used in restaurants, and those used when asking directions.
Early in the orientation period the visual education students began the task of establishing committees which were to assume responsibility for necessary tasks en route. The following committees were set up: entertainment, photography, navigation, education, “snack”, coordination. The entertainment committee planned all tour enter-
tainment including group singing on the bus, evening entertainment, special activities such as church enroute and the “Travelaire” banquet on the way home. The photography committee developed a photographic plan to insure adequate photographic coverage of the trip with a minimum of duplication. The navigation committee planned the day’s route and furnished, daily, one person to serve as the official navigator. This person had complete responsibility for giving highway directions to the bus driver. The education committee had charge of working into the master tour schedule the special stops requested by the various instructors. The “snack” committee prepared noon lunches for those days during which there was no desirable meal stop. All tour activities were harmonized by the coordination committee.
Students registered for credit in the education course spent a great deal of time with resource materials dealing with the Mexican system of education. Each student was assigned reading from an extensive bibliography and, in addition, assigned a special topic on which he was to write a short paper. These papers were duplicated, and copies given to all tour members. The instructor in education traced the history of education in Mexico and endeavored to develop certain basic understandings of Mexico’s program of education which would serve as a foundation for learning on the tour. Instructional materials included a basic text, library materials including reference books and periodicals, motion pictures, film strips, and two by two slides.
Additional language instruction helped students build a basic Spanish vocabulary which they would be able to use in ordinary conversation with individuals whom they would visit in Mexico. Abilities of several tour members in the language area were used to assist in the instruction of other students.
In all group sessions both before the tour (Continued on Page T-3)