4
Pak Am zur caiv
IVorid Afgmrs Teacher
Hawaiian Islands
forth red hot lava (molten rock). Cooled and hardened in the water, the solidified rock built up and up through the centuries until it broke through at the surface of the water at first at one place and then another until there was a chain of islands extending from Midway Island far to the northwest of Honolulu, to Hawaii at the southeast.
Under the surface, the formation is a mountain range, and the exposed mountain tops are the islands shown in the map at the beginning of this unit. At the upper left, are Niihau and Kauai, then Oahu which is the principal island politically and economically and upon which Honolulu is situated, then Molokai, Lanai, Kahoolawe and Maui, and finally, the largest island, Hawaii. Not shown on the map are additional islands to the northw'est which also are the tops of mountains, in the same chain, and they include Kure, Midway, Lisianski, Laysan and Gardner. Midway is a Naval base and a relay station for the Pacific Cable Company, and at an earlier time, was an island base for the Clippers of Pan American World Airways.
As these islands were appearing at the surface of the ocean—when the mountains were breaking through—their formation was assisted from another source. Tiny marine animals called polyps went to work. The polyps live and die in warm, shallow sea water, leaving their skeletons behind as coral. Coral formations are found all along the shore lines of the Hawaiian Islands, and coral reefs beyond the bays and inlets protect them from the high waves of the open ocean.
The native Hawaiians are Polynesians and the Hawaiian Islands are grouped with Polynesia—-one of the three great divisions of the Pacific Islands. Polynesia extends from the Hawaiian Islands southward to the region of Samoa, Tonga and the Society Island. To locate it on the globe, look for the area between the International Date Line and the 110th Degree West Meridian—most of Polynesia being below the equator, although Hawaii and some others, of course, are north of the equator.
The other two Pacific Island areas are Melanesia and Micronesia. Melanesia is the group of islands northeast of Australia, including the Solomon, Santa Cruz, New Hebrides, Loyalty, New Caledonia and Fiji Islands. Micronesia—northwest of Melanesia —includes Guam, the Marianas, Caroline Islands, the Marshalls and others.
The Polynesians belong to the Caucasian (white) race, and are believed to have started across the Pacific from Malay, by way of Java. Polynesian tradition makes much of a land of the forefathers called Hawaiki, which can be connected linguistically with Java as it is known today, and there obviously is a similarity between the names Hawaiki and Hawaii.
Whether they fled across the seas from enemies, or travelled because they were venturesome—or both—the Polynesians became highly skilled navigators, and without the aid of scientific instruments of any kind. They plotted their courses with reference to the stars, and supplemented this with their knowledge of weather, ocean currents and
WAIKIKI — This is the “bamboo hula” plied by the band in the background.
the habits of marine creatures. A coconut floating in the water would be just that to me. To the Polynesian navigator it would indicate land across the horizon, and in what direction, and, roughly, from the condition of the coconut, how far.
There are Polynesian navigators today who think no more of starting across a thousand miles of ocean in an open canoe than I do of boarding a Clipper for the ten hour flight from the Pacific Coast to Hawaii.
At some time in fairly recent history (recent as compared with the age of the islands themselves) a group of Polynesians led by such a navigator arrived from elsewhere in the Pacific upon one of the islands which we know now as the Hawaiian group.
The Spaniards may have visited Hawaii about 1555. But history records the visit of Captain James Cook, explorer of the South Seas and western South America as the discoverer. Captain Cook called in 1778, and gave the archipelago the name Sandwich Island, in honor of his sponsor the Earl of Sandwich, whose name also has come down to us to designate a popular picnic and luncheon item.
At the time of Captain Cook’s visit all the islands were inhabited, and each had its own chieftain. In 1795 the Hawaii Island chief, Kamehameha, brought all the islands under his rule and founded a royal dynasty, his successors being Kamehameha II, III, IV and V. Following the Kamehameha dynasty, the rulers were William C. Lunalilo, David Kalakaua and Queen Liliuokalani. Honolulu became the capital in 1850 under Kamehameha III, who declared it to be a city and his capital. Prior to that the capital was Lahaina, on Maui Island.
Queen Liliuokalani was the last of the monarchs. She was deposed in 1893 and a
danced by five Hawaiian girls to music sup-
provisional government sought to annex the islands to the United States. When this proposal was not immediately accepted, Hawaii became a republic in 1894. But in 1898, the United States agreed to annex the islands, which then became a Territory.
Hawaii’s bid for statehood has an interesting parallel with the history of aviation, for it was first put forward in 1903, the year in which the Wright Brothers achieved powered flight at Kitty Hawk. This is a coincidence, of course, but an especially interesting one since aviation in recent years has had so profound an effect upon the development of these islands more than 2,000 miles away from the mainland.
Present
When Rudyard Kipling wrote in the Ballad of East and West that “East is East and West is West, and Never the Twain Shall Meet” he overlooked Hawaii. Mainland U.S.A. has been called the “melting pot”. But the racial mixture on the mainland doesn’t begin to compare with that of Hawaii, nor does it blend as quickly, readily and comfortably as in the Paradise of the Pacific.
Here are the ancestors of today’s Hawaiian families: Hawaiians, Filipinos, Portuguese, Chinese, Japanese, Puerto Ricans, Koreans, Americans, Spaniards, other Europeans. The resident having ancestors in two or more of the foregoing is the rule, rather than the exception. The number having unmixed Hawaiian blood is relatively small, but everyone who can claim a Hawaiian ancestor does so proudly. Whether or not they have such antecedents, families regularly give their children Hawaiian names, many of which have English equivalents, for example Malia and Mary; Keoni and John; Likelike and Richard.