Jan.-Feb., 1950
PISA. The famous leaning tower, 16^2 feet out of the perpendicular probably was intended to stand erect. Students believe it assumed its oblique position by settling unevenly during construction.
square mile in the United States. The country is divided into three distinct regions. The first is made up of the towering Alps with their foothills on the south. The second region comprises the broad valley of the great Po River which is one of the richest agricultural districts in Europe. The third, is the peninsular section shaped like a great boot with a mountain range running through the center. One side faces the Mediterranean while the other borders on the Adriatic. There are many rivers, beautiful lakes and a typically mild Mediterranean climate with no great extremes in temperature. Clear blue skies prevail for long periods of time.
In addition to being a rich agricultural region the Po Valley is also one of the most vital industrial areas of Europe. To the north are the towering peaks of the Alps whose mountain streams are a great natural source of hydro-electric power. The proximity of the cities of this area to the coal mines of southern Germany is also an important factor in the region’s industrial development. Italy suffers from a lack of coal and other raw materials and a large part of the nation’s supplies of such products must be imported.
Urban Italy
Genoa, one of the principal ports and commercial centers of the land is the terminus for trade with countries to the north and west of Italy. Its harbor area of 600 acres is constantly filled with ships flying the flags of the principal trading nations of the world.
Pa/v American
Won to Afffmvsr Teacher	s
The city’s manufacturing activity includes the production of velvet, silk, wool and cotton fabrics ; ribbons ; damask; embroidery; artificial flowers; gold, silver and ivory ornaments; and marble and alabaster objects. Genoa is famous for its marble palaces built during the Renaissance. The old town is a network of steep narrow streets lined with high buildings but modern boulevards are broad and well built.
Venice, at the head of the Adriatic is the center of trade with the east. The city was established on a series of lagoon mud flats by refugees from the Italian mainland who were driven out by one of the barbaric invasions. The lagoons were transferred into canals and gondolas were used to travel from one section of the city to another.
Today, in addition to the Grand Canal which divides the city into two equal parts, there are over 170 canals and the gondola has become the “trade mark” of Venice the world over. There are over three hundred gondolas still in service although regular streets, taxis and street cars have been added to supplement the original mode of transportation.
Ever since the Middle Ages the Venetians have been traders. One of the most famous was Marco Polo, son of a merchant, who opened up new horizons for commerce and travel for the people of his day. During his adventures he reached Peiping in China which at that time was the farthest point in the East ever visited by a European. The character of Venetian industry has not changed much since medieval times. Mosaics; jewelry; glassware; wooden carvings ; laces; and tapestries are still manufactured. A small shipbuilding industry still exists. One of the most important modern sources of income for the city’s 265,000 inhabitants are the expenditures of the thousands of tourists who annually flock to Venice.
Halfway between Genoa and Venice in the heart of the Lombard Plain lies Milan, the second largest city in Italy. Residence of over a million people it is famous as the banking and publishing center of Northern Italy. Long a natural junction of trade
routes between the west and east the city’s annual commercial fair has grown to be one of the most important business gatherings in Europe.
First inaugurated in 1920 the fair has become a substitute for commercial travelers and samples of products from all the more important trading nations of Europe are displayed there. Industrial activity in Milan includes the manufacture of chemicals; textiles ; synthetic fibers; automobiles; and indirect consumer products.
The city is also a cultural and educational center. Milan’s great art and library collections are world famous. Its music center, the La Scala Theater figured prominently in the careers of such well known artists as Toscanini and Caruso. In the center of the metropolis is a Cathedral built of white marble in the shape of a cross where Napoleon was crowned King of Italy in 1805.
In central Italy amid the fertile valley of the winding Arno River lies Florence the city of beautiful art treasures and famous men. No spot in the modern world can claim so illustrious a past which includes such men as Dante, Michelangelo, Cellini, Da Vinci, Petrarch, Galileo, Amerigo Vespucci and Machiavelli. Florence was the heart of the Italian Renaissance. It is still famous for its jewelry, gold-and silversmiths, linen and handmade leather goods.
A short distance from Rome in the southwest lies Naples on a wide picturesque bay which leads to the Mediterranean. The city presents a charming picture from the sea for the spires of its ancient buildings stand out against the background of the famed Mt. Vesuvius. Its historic traditions, buildings and climate attract thousands of visitors each year. Foremost among these attractions are the ruins of Pompeii and the Isle of Capri.
Capri is a toy sized haven on a large limestone and sandstone rock situated on the south side of the Bay of Naples. The island is a blend of Roman ruins, ancient castles, forts, towers, modern hotels, rich villas and fishermen’s houses.
Naples itself contains a curious combination of the old and new. Its modern sections
VENICE. Streets, automobiles, buses and street cars now serve parts of Venice, but gondolas continue to ply the 170 canals. The gondola is virtually a “trademark” of Venice.