Pan American
Jan.-Feb., 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TRACHRR 7
THE INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION
By Donald J. Shank
One tour offers travel via PAA to Mexico and Guatemala, leaving Houston July 20th and returning August 24th. The package price of $495 includes transportation by Clipper, tuition fees at University of Guatemala, hotels and food, 16 field trips within Mexico City and Guatemala City and guide services.
A tour to Mexico only is priced at $375 for the package. The group will leave Houston June 8th and return July 13th, and the price includes transportation via PAA, tuition fees for study at University of Mexico, hotel accommodations, 16 field trips and excursions inside and outside Mexico City and guide service.
Write to:
Joseph S. Werlin, Director, International Study Centers, University of Houston,
3801 St. Bernard Street Houston, Texas.
AIR CRUISE TO 11 LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. Nora B. Thompson, who has gained wide-spread recognition for her tours to Guatemala, this year is conducting two tours to Latin America for the Brownell Agency.
Departure is from New Orleans, via PAA, and the cities to be visited include Chichen Itza, Guatemala City, Chichicastenango, Balboa, Panama City, Quito, Lima, Santiago, Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belem, Port-of-Spain, San Juan, and return to U. S. at Miami.
One tour will depart in early summer, the other in late summer—both with Dr. Thompson as conductor. These trips are not for credit—they are for the people who want to observe and learn in their own ways.
Write to:
Dr. N. B. Thompson,
116 Argyle Road Ardmore, Pennsylvania.
ART STUDY TOUR, EUROPE. Miss Margaret Chase of Lowell High School, San Francisco, will repeat her tour of art centers in Europe for girl students of high school age.
Students will visit London, Amsterdam, Brussels, Weisbaden, Oberammergau, Lucerne, Interlaken, Como, Venice, Florence, Assisi, Rome, Sorrento, Ravello, Pisa, San Remo, Spezia, Nice, Avignon, Vichy, and Paris.
The journey to Europe will be on the SS PARTHIA, new post-war Cunard-White Star liner; return via Pan American World Airways.
Miss Chase has planned this tour as one which will be of special interest to art students of high school age. (Girls only.) An opportunity will be afforded to see most of the great art masterpieces in European galleries. There will be time, also, for such things as seeing the change of the Royal Guards at Buckingham Palace in London, for attending the Passion Play in Oberammergau, for a side excursion to the Jungfrau in the Alps, and many other interesting diversions.
Write to:
Miss Margaret Chase 9 Seal Rock Drive,
San Francisco 21,
California.
The Institute of International Education is preparing to welcome as its president next spring Kenneth Holland, United States Counselor on UNESCO Affairs at Paris. “Welcome back” might be a more fitting expression. Dr. Holland has known the Institute well ever since he went to study at the University of Paris in 1932 as a Fellow under its sponsorship. It is appropriate that one of our fellowship students who has since done such outstanding work in the field of international education should return as the Institute’s leader.
A graduate of Occidental College and Princeton University, Dr. Holland has also
NEW IIE PRESIDENT
Kenneth Holland
attended the University of Grenoble as well as studying at Paris. He has played a prominent part in developing the program for American participation in UNESCO since the London Conference in November,
1945.	Since February, 1948, he has represented the United States Government at UNESCO headquarters. Dr. Holland has served as a member of official United States Government delegations to the UNESCO Conference in London in 1945, the first UNESCO General Conference at Paris in
1946,	and subsequent sessions in Mexico Citv in 1947, Beirut in 1948, and Paris in 1949.
Dr. Holland is well qualified by his educational background and subsequent experience to direct the activities of the Institute of International Education, a private, non-profit organization devoted to promoting world peace by arranging exchange of students and specialists between the United States and other countries. The Institute places foreign and American students on scholarships and fellowships offered by educational institutions both here and abroad, and also makes available to them financial assistance from private and governmental sources. It administers scholarship programs
for bi-national foundations, corporations, foreign and United States government agencies, UNESCO, and other groups and individuals.
This year the Institute has under its sponsorship 873 students from 59 countries who are studying in American educational institutions, and 135 Americans in 14 countries abroad. In addition, it plans observation and study programs for specialists from many countries who come to the United States for six-month periods to learn modern techniques and latest developments in their various fields, and then return to their countries to put their knowledge to practical application. An important aspect of the Institute’s work is arranging lecture tours for distinguished men and women from abroad, and debating engagements in American colleges for teams from the British universities.
Another of the Institute’s responsibilities is the preliminary screening of applications from graduate students for scholarships and travel grants under Public Law 584 (79th Congress), known as the Fulbright Act. During the last year it received thousands of such applications and made recommendations for awards to 548 Americans now studying on Fulbright grants in 14 countries, 352 foreign students who received Fulbright travel grants to come to the United States, and 31 Americans who were awarded travel grants to go abroad for study purposes.
Since 1929 the development of educational exchanges with Latin America has had an important place on the Institute’s program. Through the cooperation and support of the United States Government, particularly since the inauguration of the Good Neighbor Policy, and of private organizations like Pan American World Airways, there have been developed many opportunities for Latin-American students in this country. Unfortunately, openings for Americans to study in the Latin republics have not kept pace. In 1949-50 the Institute placed 192 Latin Americans in colleges in the United States, but only 11 Americans in Latin-American schools. Lack of sufficient financial assistance is an important factor in this situation. In spite of tuition fellowships given by colleges in Latin America and travel fellowships-—25 are offered by Pan American Airways each year to match those for Latin Americans coming to the United States—supplementary money to cover the fairly high costs of living in Latin America has not been available.
It is to be hoped that this situation will be remedied in the future. Assistance could be given to the program by corporations doing business in Latin America. It would be to their advantage to be able to draw personnel from people familiar with the countries with which they deal, as they have found it advantageous to have American-trained men and women on their staffs in foreign countries. Students from the United States are much interested in and would profit greatly from a year spent in one of the Latin-American countries.
/