Pan Amtrícan
s	World Airways Teacher
LIMA. The statue is of the liberator San Martin, and stands in the Plaza San Martin. In the background is the Hotel Bolivar.
PERU
(Continued from page 1)
Four hundred years ago the Spanish conquerors destroyed the Inca Empire. That Empire had built not only the most advanced civilization in South America but one of the most impressive civilizations in the Western Hemisphere. The Incas, Children of the Sun, set their capital, the city of Cuzco, high in a lovely, fertile Andean valley.
There they built the stone houses, the palaces of the royal family, the austere and massive temples to the Sun and to the Moon. Inca workers, using no mortar, fitted stone blocks as large as those used to build the Pyramids into the noble curving walls of the temples and the triangular salients of the fortresses. From Cuzco the Incas ruled a kingdom which included all of modern Peru, most of Ecuador and parts of Bolivia and Chile.
Lima, City of the Kings Thanks to Prescott, everybody calls Lima the City of the Kings. He wrote: “Amidst the woe and destruction which Pizarro and his followers brought on the devoted land of the Incas, Lima, the beautiful city of the Kings, survives as the most glorious work of his creation, the fairest gem on the shores of the Pacific.”
And so it is. Lima illustrates vividly that old maxim that the whole is greater than any of its parts. Lima’s spirit hovers over everything. Its charm leaps out at you many times a day—from a street name, from the stone of an old Spanish house, from the smile of a lovely girl.
You sense Lima’s spirit as you stand beside the graceful fountain in the middle of the Plaza de Armas, the heart of the city’s Spanish section; as you face the bronze figure of Francisco Pizarro holding a huge
drawn sword; as you gaze at the impressive cathedral.
You taste the charm of Lima as you walk from the center of the Plaza de Armas to the old buildings that fringe one side of it. Their arcades, which the Spaniards called Arcade of the Button Makers and Arcade of the Letter Writers, are still so called by Peruvians today.
Then turn from the Arcade of the Letter Writers into Jirón Unión, the city’s main shopping thoroughfare, and you get a foretaste of what is in store for you. Things of the past elbow things alive and the Twentieth Century tempers the Sixteenth. Here is Spanish dignity of both eras. A city of contrasts, it is cosmopolitan, yet breathing and throbbing with old-world enchantment. In a short time you begin to feel as if time had been telescoped backward to the days of the all-conquering Conquistadores, to an age of full-skirted señoritas and quicktempered caballeros. . . .
You must remember all this in order to appreciate the beauty of the city and the spirit of the Limeño, for the most typically Spanish city of South America is becoming also the most modern and lovely. Rough cobblestones have given way to fine paving, and streets and avenues are works of art; austere mansions of the past are competing with modernistic homes: apartment houses and commercial office buildings side by side seem to blend in the most gracious manner.
When you have seen the whole city you cannot say exactly what it is that makes Lima so different. You remember the one-story houses with large patios inside; the heavy street-doors like those of a fortress; the Moorish balconies overhanging the streets.
Streets and Plazas
It is in Jirón Unión which is Lima’s
Jan.-Feb.» 1950
Fifth Avenue, that you will get acquainted for the first time with Lima’s system of identifying streets. It is some kind of double talk, charming and maddening at the same time. In the central part of the city, a succession of street blocks is called Jirón. The name of each Jirón is plainly marked at the corner where it intersects another thoroughfare. But—here is the rub—each individual block comprised in it has a name which is used by Limeños, to the exclusion of the name of the Jirón of which it is a part. The problem is that the name of each block is not shown on street signs. However, this is something you learn in a short time.
The names given to the streets often suggest their history. For example, the block called Espaderos, part of Jirón Unión, recalls the fact that three centuries ago the swordmakers of Spanish days fashioned and sold their swords there. On the street of Guitarreros purchasers of guitars used to repair their instruments. On that of Polvos Azules, blue indigo powders were offered for sale. The street of Siete Pecados (seven sins) was famous as the abode of seven beauties. The street of Mata. Siete (Kill seven) owes its name to a hair-raising yarn of murder. The street of the Egg tells the story that on it a hen laid an egg of tremendous size from which emerged a. real giant of a chicken. There is the street of Barbones (bearded men), the street of Patos (ducks), and so on.
At the end of the fifth block of Jirón Lhiión you reach Plaza San Martin. In the middle of the square is the equestrian statue of the Argentine General José de San Martín, loved by all Peruvians as one of the country’s two Liberators (the other was the Venezuelan Simón Bolívar). At night, rays of electric light thrown upon it give it added dignity and life. Tastefully placed in the central portion are flower beds, fountains and stone benches for those who pause to rest or to admire.
Occupying the greater portion of one side of the Plaza is the Gran Hotel Bolivar, an impressive structure whose accommodations and conveniences make it one of the finest hotels in South America. Through Hotel Bolivar lobby passes the main current of Peruvian life, for it is the meeting place of statesmen and businessmen, of society people and foreign visitors. Cocktail time and tea time at the Bolivar are events in the daily life of Lima. The remaining space about the Plaza San Martin is occupied by office buildings, the most modern of these houses the American Consulate.
Returning from the Bolivar along the five blocks of Jirón Unión you come to the Plaza de Armas. This Plaza, since the founding of Lima, has been the main square, the site which Pizarro himself selected as a nucleus for the city. Grouped about the square are the buildings in which Peruvian history has been made and continues to be made today. Here you find the Government Palace, whose original foundation stone was laid by Pizarro in 1535. The Palace has beautifully carved ceilings, exquisite chandeliers, and Moorish tiles preserve the ancient atmosphere and make it a showplace of the city. Tradition survives in the regular changing of colorfully-uniformed guards, performed