Pav American
World Alrhays Teacher	Jan.-Feb„ 1950
ROME. The Colosseum, along with other structures, remains as mute testimony to the glory that was Rome. This is the Arch of Constantine in the Colosseum.
colors. They brought less spirituality to their works but made them more pleasing to the eye.
In the field of architecture and sculpture the stiff, crude forms of the Middle Ages were abandoned. Architectural design began to resemble that of ancient Greece. Developments in the field of sculpture were summed up in Michelangelo’s work which has never been equalled for dramatic action, passion and physical expression.
The first literature written in Italian (rather than Latin) also made its appearance. The great poetry of Dante and Petrarch and the perfect prose of Boccaccio made the fourteenth century the Golden Age of Italian literature. Dante Alighieri summarized Italian thought and feeling of the Middle Ages. The “modern” outlook of Francesco Petrarch showed the intellectual aspirations of the Renaissance. The early Italian humanist Boccaccio wrote humorous stories which gave a picture of Italian life.
As 1492 dawned Italy was economically and intellectually superior to the rest of the European continent. Its lack of unity however prevented it from becoming a potent political force in the world. While other European nations organized powerful kingdoms, Italy remained divided. During the centuries that followed, France, Germany, Spain and Austria tried repeatedly (and were successful for short periods of time) to gain control over the city states. Such statesmen as Mazzini, Garibaldi and Cavour could tell of their desperate attempts to unify their country. Insurrection after insurrection was organized. Their efforts were finally successful in 1871 when Rome was established as the site of a central government.
During the past thirty years Rome has showed the greatest progress of all the Italian cities. A reconstruction program
was carried out and the ancient part of the city restored to much of its former grandeur. Boulevards were built, new squares and parks created and new government buildings constructed. The city was further modernized by the establishment of a zoning system, the construction of a subway and new thoroughfares and the erection of model low cost housing for less prosperous dwellers.
The major portion of commercial and industrial activity however still takes place in the other cities of Italy which were once centers of individual Italian republics. In Rome there are only a few manufacturing establishments producing such products as silk goods, jewelry, objects of art, earthenware, macaroni, soap and tobacco.
The capital is an important transportation terminus and the ancient phrase “all roads lead to Rome” has been expanded to include air and rail transportation as well. Excellent highways radiate from Rome to all sections of the country and CIT, the national company of Italian tourism operates an excellent system of buses which traverse the entire nation. Rome is linked by rail with other principal cities on the peninsula as well as cities in France and Switzerland. The capital is also the center of air commerce with airlines of every important country calling at its international airport, Ciampino.
The Vatican
Besides being a capital of a kingdom Rome is the center of the Catholic World. Within its borders lies Vatican City, the smallest independent sovereign state in existence today. Over a hundred acres in area, the Vatican is the headquarters of the Roman Catholic Church and the residence of the Pope.
' Its buildings house priceless collections of sculpture and paintings by Raphael, Michelangelo and other great masters. Its library,
one of the most valuable in the world, contains about 400,000 volumes and 50,000 rare old manuscripts.
In addition, a number of buildings in Rome proper are under Papal jurisdiction. Full executive, legal and judicial powers for the area belong to the Pope although actually he appoints his own governor to take care of most of the executive duties. Vatican City has its own railway station, postal system, coins, flag and radio broadcasting station. It also has diplomatic representatives stationed in a number of foreign countries.
Until the Italian kingdom was organized the temporal domain of the Pope extended over a large area in Italy, known as the Papal States. In 1870 this territory was seized and the Pope’s civil authority was limited to the Vatican and Lateran palaces. In 1929 an agreement was reached with the Italian government under which the present area was assigned to him. He received a monetary payment in addition to Italian State bonds as compensation for loss of temporal power.
Throughout the centuries the Vatican has been the destination of millions of Catholic pilgrims who travel from all over the world to rededicate themselves to the Catholic faith. Ever since 1300 every twenty-fifth year has been designated as a Holy Year in which this rededication is commemorated by special celebrations. During the last Holy Year, in 1925, 1,100,000 people visited the Vatican. One million came by road and another 100,000 by boat. 1950 is also' a Holy Year and it has been estimated that 6,000,000 visitors will go to Rome from all parts of the world; 600,000 from this side of the ocean alone. This is the first such celebration in which the airplane can play its true role of serving those who have only a limited amount of time at their disposal to make so long a journey.
To facilitate this travel Felix Roma, a non-profit Catholic organization made up of Catholic Committees in forty countries was established by the World Council of Men for Catholic Action. The object of this group is to provide pilgrims with the maximum comfort and highest spiritual and material assistance while they are in the Holy City. It has taken over hotels and apartment houses and is prepared to feed, house and entertain hundreds of thousands of travelers at minimum cost. While tours will be arranged on both ships and planes, special emphasis is being placed on air transportation.
Regular Pan American Clipper connections are available from New York to Rome three times a week. Once in Rome connections may be made via LIA, the Italian National Airline to other principal cities on the peninsula. This will allow visitors on a two or three week vacation trip to see much more of the scenic beauties of Italy— a land which has attracted more travelers throughout the ages then most other nations in the world combined.
Today’s Italy
The Italy of today, exclusive of colonies, possesses a land area of 119,744 square miles on which live about 42,600,000 people. This means there are about 355 persons for each square mile in contrast to 44 persons pep