Pan American
Jan -Feb., 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	3
THE VATICAN. Since 1950 is Holy Year, thousands upon thousands of pilgrims will visit Vatican City. They will be sure to visit St. Peter’s Square and the Basilica of St. Peter’s (shown in picture) built 1600 years ago, and generally regarded as the greatest Church in Christendom. The Bull of 1300 proclaiming the first Jubilee Year is inscribed between two doors opening on the porch.
ITALY IN HOLY YEAR
Adventurers, conquerors, traders, religious pilgrims, artists, writers and statesmen crowd the pages of Italian history. If they could step forth to describe the roles they played in the life of their country, every age of Western Civilization would be represented. All were possessed with intense national pride and each strove in his own way to make Italy great. But by listening to their tales it would become evident that although they had a common purpose each one’s conception of greatness was based on very different premises.
To Romulus who founded Rome more than seven hundred years before the birth of Christ that city was “Italy.” At that time there were a number of tribal villages scattered on the hills south and east of the Tiber River about fifteen miles from the Mediterranean Sea.
The tribes of one of these hills finally united under Romulus’ leadership. Before long neighboring tribes joined the newly born city which ultimately spread itself over seven hills. Rome’s location in the center of the Italian peninsula on a river navigable for sea-going ships made it near enough to the sea to enjoy its advantages without being directly exposed to actions by hostile fleets. The city’s population increased and commerce thrived.
Roman rulers who followed Romulus felt that the establishment of Rome was not an end in itself. Perhaps the mighty dictator Julius Caesar represented their thinking best of all. To him Rome was the center of an empire which would encompass all of the known world. Roman legions conquered the rest of the Italian peninsula and gained supremacy over the Mediterranean. Greece, the Near East and Gallia (modern France) were brought into the empire.
By Lou A. Phillips
During this period Rome underwent a great physical change. From a small community of wooden buildings it grew into a metropolis with marble palaces, temples, amphitheaters, forums and public baths.
Parks were laid out in various parts of the city, which was then surrounded by a high wall, and bridges gave access to both sides of the Tiber. Beautiful columns and triumphal arches magnificently decorated with sculpture were erected to celebrate victories and honor outstanding leaders. Some of these structures such as the Pantheon and the Colosseum still stand giving mute testimony to the glory that was Rome.
The Beginning of Modern Italy
After the fall of the Roman Empire Rome declined in power and prestige and the strong city states of Milan, Venice, Florence and Naples began to rise to power. The history of Italy thus became the history of these individual republics rather than the story of a single city.
During the Middle Ages trade and commerce continued to increase. Genoa, Pisa and Venice derived enormous wealth and influence from the Crusades by furnishing food and supplies for the fleets of the expeditions. Then by using the crusaders who had become their debtors, these cities forced them to secure concessions and establish trading posts in the East for their benefit.
Political intrigue flourished. None of the city states were strong enough to conquer other portions of the Italian peninsula but each was sufficiently powerful to hinder another from carrying out any unification. Typical of the astute politicians of the day was Niccolo Machiavelli. A native of Florence, he virtually ruled the Florentine
republic for fourteen years and is best remembered for his philosophy that in politics the end justifies the means. Machiavelli advocated the unification of Italy by a prince who would let nothing stand in his way.
During this period Europe was passing through a dark era devoid for the most part of cultural endeavors. Soon however the curiosity of people all over Europe became aroused and they began to study the classics of the past. This movement was known as the Renaissance. It awakened human thought and paved the way for modern civilization and culture. The center of this re-awakening was Italy which soon became the center of Western Culture.
Italy And The Arts
Painting, sculpture and the other arts were practiced by the geniuses of the day. Schools flourished in various centers and for four hundred years Italy produced some of the greatest painters and paintings ever known.
There were the great Florentine painters, such as Giotto, whose works were characterized by simplicity, grandeur and power. In Siena the painters adopted more delicate techniques. Fra Angelico, a Dominican friar imbued his work with a spiritual glow. He was also a great colorist and one of the first artists to paint natural figures.
The theory of perspective was developed by Uccello and Botticelli. Da Vinci painted his Mona Lisa and the Last Supper. Michelangelo executed the magnificent Creation of Man and The Last Judgment. Raphael, one of the greatest religious painters of all time painted the famed Sistine Madonna. In Venice, Bellini, Giorgione and Titian performed marvelous feats with brilliant