Pan American
Jan.-Feb., 1950	WORLD AfRMYE TEACHEH	9
with the pomp and ceremony befitting the history behind the act.
On another side of the Plaza de Armas rises the Cathedral in which the remains of Pizarro lie in a glass coffin. Marvelously carved choir stalls near the altar never fail to evoke exclamations of admiration for the patient craftsmanship which produced them.
Behind the Government Palace runs the Rimac River and a walk across the historic stone bridge leads to “Below the Bridge”, an important residential section from the time of the conquest until the beginning of the 19th century. Best known of the colonial mansions here is the Quintal de Presa, a sumptuous residence built by the viceroy Amat for his favorite actress, “La Perri-choli”. That lady became very popular in the United States when Thornton Wilder wrote his Bridge of San Luis Rey not long ago.
Education in Peru
It is interesting R> note that San Martin, one of Peru’s Liberators, founded the first normal school in 1822, a year after the separation from Spain. Simon Bolivar, after destroying Spanish power forever in South America, established many colegios (secondary schools), among them the first one for girls, provincial normal schools and other institutions of learning, and ordered the Lancastrian school system extended throughout the Republic. But it was not until 1920, when a new education law was passed, that Peru made such progress toward stability, administrative efficiency, school attendance and the like.
According to “Education in Peru,”—an article by Cameron D. Ebaugh published in the Bulletin of the U. S. Office of Education—there are 28 public and free kindergartens in Peru, 7847 public elementary schools (compulsory and free from 7 to 16 years), 69 public secondary schools, 165 private secondary schools, 12 urban normal schools and 19 rural. There is also a National Institute for Physical Education and various graduate courses for teachers at the National University of San Marcos.
English is obligatory as a major basic course in all public and private secondary schools of the Republic and the official text is the “Curso de Inglés” prepared by the staff of the Peruvian-North American Cultural Institute and published by the Ministry of Education. There are, of course, vocational education schools, higher education and special educational services.
In most Latin American countries the capital is not only the most important city but the center of education and intellectual life as well. Lima is no exception. The University of San Marcos in Lima, founded in 1551, 85 years before Harvard, is the center of education. Various schools of San Marcos are located in different parts of the city, but the headquarters near the Plaza San Martin provide a focal point for student life, both local and foreign. At present, special courses offered during the I North American summer vacation period are open to> students from everywhere. These courses cover Spanish literature, Peruvian history, art, folklore, etc. In addition to San Marcos there are others such as the University of Arequipa, Cuzco, Trujillo, and the Catholic University of Lima.
LIMA. The Iglesia de San Marcello was built in 1584 by the Spaniards. It is considered to be an excellent example of the Spanish rococo style popular in that period.
Vocational and technical schools are being established in several major areas of the country. Emphasis is on techniques of teaching and development of skills in electricity, carpentry, sheet-metal work, agriculture and other vocational activities. There are experimental farms to teach better agriculture and livestock methods. Several Indian community colonies are reviving age-old skills such as weaving, pottery-making and metal working.
Art and Literature
Years ago, Peruvian lovers of art, literature and poetry had but one model: Europe. Then, they discovered a practically untapped source of a vast traditional national culture, and almost everything centered on the indigenous Inca and pre-Inca motifs. Today, the Asociación de Artistas Aficionados, Peru’s liveliest artistic and literary group, seeks to merge the two.
This group has done a good job. In 1949 representative artists visited Europe and succeeded in offering abroad Peruvian accomplishments in many fields: painting, silver, ceramics and native costumes. This group has a little experimental theater and presents the best dramatic work.
Peru has a cultural tradition which goes back to the colonial period and beyond. The best representative of that period is, without doubt, Inca Garcilaso (1539-1616). The Inca, as he liked to call himself, was the son of the conqueror Garcilaso de la Vega, cousin of the admirable Spanish poet his namesake. The Inca’s mother was a granddaughter of Tupac Yupanqui and a cousin of Atahualpa. At the age of twenty-one he left Peru, never to return. In Spain he participated in many military expeditions. Later he retired to Cordova and devoted his life to literature.
The Inca Garcilaso' was a master of beautiful prose in that age of masterful writing. His first work was a perfect translation of a masterpiece, the Philogratphia or Dialogues on Love by the Spanish Jew Judah Abravanel, or Leon Hebreo, who wrote it during his exile in Italy. After the Dialogues Garcilaso published La Florida (1605), a story of Hernando de Soto’s expedition to the flowery peninsula.
Garcilaso’s last and greatest task was the Royal Commentaries (1609-1617), in some ways the best of all the works on the early history of the Americas. Its first part is the story of the Inca Empire, the second part, the story of the conquerors. By means of long study and great love Garcilaso collected a vast store of information, both Indian and Spanish, and one of his best sources was the living word of the men and women of his own family.
Garcilaso is the Herodotus of the Incas ; he captured and rendered the true spirit of their civilization, together with the feeling of the landscape that encircled it, with “the overwhelming imminence of the Andes” ; he erected to them a monument not unworthy of their powerful architectural structures.
Since Garcilaso, until today, Peru has given to the Spanish speaking world great names in literature and political writing. Gonzalez Prada, Clorinda Matto de Turner, Ricardo Palma, José Santos Chocano, Ciro Alegría, César Vallejo and others. The Indian theme has been prominent. The Indianist movement began with the Mexican revolution of 1910. Its first significant page was the poem ¿Quién sabe? of the Peruvian Santos Chocano, written in 1913 while he accompanied the revolutionary army. The poem reads something like this : “Indian, you till the land for a master. Do you know that it ought to be yours ... ? Do you know that