Pa/v American
Wo rio Am ways Teacher	Jan.-Feb.( 1950
LIMA. This is a model of an Inca temple which has been faithfully reproduced on a small scale within a court yard in the Lima Museum.
greed deprived you of it centuries ago? Do you know that you are the master?” The Indian replies: “Quién sabe, señor!” Perhaps, who knows, and this reply becomes the refrain of the poem.
The Andean mountains have been the source of inspiration oí many poets in Spanish America. The Colombian Guillermo Valencia wrote his song “To the Andes”, and José Santos Chocano (1875-1934) likewise. The Peruvian poet whose fiery, figurative, epigrammatic style won him laurels at an early age was a man of adventurous spirit. His name is legend in Peru. It is with pleasure that I include one oí his poems, both in Spanish and English, as translated by Alice Stone Blackwell, the American admirer of Spanish American poetry.
Los Andes
Cual se ve la escultórica serpiente de Laoconte en mármoles desnudos, los Andes trenzan sus nerviosos nudos en el cuerpo de todo uncontinente.
Horror dantespo estremecer se siente por sobre ese tropel de héroes membrudos, que se alzan con graníticos escudos y con cascos de plata refulgente.
La angustia de cada héroe es infinita, porque quiere gritar, retiembla, salta, se parte de dolor . . . pero no grita;
y sólo deja, estático y sombrío, rodar, desde su cúspide más alta, la silenciosa lágrima de un río.
The Andes
As winds along, in snowy marble bare,
The carven serpent of Laocoon,
O’er a whole continent the Andes run, Braiding their mighty knots in shining air. A horror like to Dante’s thrills us there, Before that crowd of heroes, every one Lifting a shield of granite in the sun,
And crowned with silver helmet gleaming
fair.
Each hero’s heart is filled with boundless grief
Because he longs to shout; he trembles, fights,
Is rent with pain—and yet no shout we hear.
In sombre ecstasy, his sole relief Is to send downward from his farthest heights
A wandering river, like a silent tear.
Wings Over Peru
In the field of aviation Peru can be proud of her great pioneer whose name is a symbol. Jorge Chavez is the national hero who shares the honors with Brazil’s Santos Dumont and U. S. A.’s Wright brothers.
One of the Plazas of Lima is named after Jorge Chavez who was the first to fly across the Alps. This was in 1912. He lost his life as he was attempting to land in a snowstorm at Domodossola, Italy, after his triumphant flight. There is always a group of admiring young Peruvians around the striking statue of modern and daring style of the youthful aviator which adorns the square. Everybody in Peru knows the last words uttered by the flyer just before the crash: “Arriba, siempre arriba” (Higher and higher) which have become the slogan of the Peruvian Air Force.
Rivaling even their own Jorge Chavez in the affections of Peruvians is Jimmy Doolittle—more formally General James H. Doolittle of World War II fame, and now Vice President of the Shell Union Oil Co.
Doolittle went to> South America in 1926 to demonstrate an airplane for the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Co. Llis skillful piloting and charming personality endeared him to the citizens of each of the countries he visited. His most famous exploit, al-
though it occurred in Chile, is remembered with awe and admiration to this day in Peru and in other South American countries. With both ankles broken and immobilized in casts, he engaged in a “dog fight” with a rival airplane demonstrator from Germany and won handily, then a little later, with both ankles still in casts, he flew over the mountains to Argentina.
Peru has had regular air service since 1928 when Pan American-Grace Airways inaugurated service from the Canal Zone. In the same year Faucett (Compañía de Aviación Faucett) began a mail and passenger service from Talara to Arequipa which was the beginning of a network of domestic air lines.
Civil aviation activities are administered by the Minister of Aeronáutica, appointed by the President, and this Minister also is responsible for the direction of the Peruvian Air Force. A government corporation— Corporación Peruana de Aeropuertos y Aviación Comercial, which is abbreviated to CORPAC—administers airports and controls the use of airways facilities.
From Limatambo, Lima’s airport, about twenty minutes by automobile from the center of the city, you can fly practically anywhere in Peru. On the air trip your plane passes over part of the Andean ranges that traverse Peru, affording views of beautiful mountains, scenery and glimpses of the Pacific lapping the Peruvian coast below, or crossing the magnificent Andes you reach Iquitos, on the Amazon River, which not long ago was practically inaccessible. Thanks to aviation, Peru has made available to the visitor and to any one who wishes to establish himself in the country the richest and most awe-inspiring regions in the world.
Generous Land of Peru
Since colonial times Peru has been known for its wealth. “Vale un Perú” (It is as wealthy as Peru) is a figure of speech commonly used in Spain and Spanish America. The mountains are rich in minerals and many valuable mines of vanadium, petroleum and oil derivatives account for nearly 20% of the value of total mineral production. In 1920 Peruvian production of crude petroleum was less than 3,000,000 barrels yearly. In 1948 it rose to 13 million 42-gallon barrels. Peru’s main deposit are along a narrow strip of the northern coast. The richest fields are around Talara, which are owned and operated by the International Petroleum Company, an affiliate of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.
The production of copper brings in around $15,000,000 annually. The principal mining center is the neighborhood of the city of Cerro de Pasco, where the Cerro de Pasco Mining Corporation, an American company, has been digging copper out of the mountain slopes several thousand feet above sea level. Next in importance to copper are silver and gold. A considerable part of Peru’s silver output is a by-product of the copper mined by the American company operating at Cerro de Pasco. Gold is largely a byproduct of copper-mining activities.
A product once highly important in Peru’s export trade, but less so today is guano, or bird manure. There are great deposits on the Chincha group of islands and others off the Peruvian coast.