12
Pan American
Won fa Am ways Teacher
Jan.-Feb., 1950
TRAVEL FOR EDUCATION
By Norman Cousins
Editor, Saturday Review of Literature
This article has been adapted from a speech delivered by Mr. Cousins at the Travel Writers’ Award dinner of the American Society of Travel Agents in the Roosevelt Hotel, New York City, in December.
America is in the process right now of raising its educational sights. What seemed adequate only a short time ago for purposes of higher education now fulfills an intermediate function at best. The speed-up in history during the past quarter of a century, converting the world into a single geographic unit, has made vast new demands on our schools. As a result, the definition of what consti-
m	r» •	tutes a truly edu-
cated person has expanded so prodigiously that higher education as we have known it falls far short of meeting the demands of a fast-changing world.
What can the schools do to catch up? Obviously formal education cannot be extended indefinitely. As it is, we are moving far past the ’teens and, in the cases of the professions, well up into the twenties. This leaves two' approaches that can stand considerable exploration and development. The first is to make the school years count for more; the second is to regard education as a continuing process not restricted to the classroom.
It seems to me that travel has an important place in both these approaches. If one of the main purposes of education today is to make the individual feel at home in the world beyond the school, then there is no substitute for a first-hand acquaintance with peoples, places, and problems. This has long been recognized by educators, but not until recently has it been possible to conceive of a wide spread program of schooling-on-the-spot. Indeed, the time may not be far off when a year’s travel or study abroad may be as much a part of the established pattern of a liberal arts education as literature or history or any other required subject.
The advantages of such a program are by no means confined to the individual. If American moral and political leadership in the world is to measure up to the world’s needs, then we have a deep and continuing stake in the preparation of American citizens for world responsibilities. America has already invested billions in the cause of world peace under democratic leadership. One way of helping to safeguard that investment might be through a definite government policy of encouraging student study and travel abroad. I am not thinking here of government subsidy. I am thinking here of something that would do for travel what the RFC does for business. We are officially committed to the view that ex-
panding industry is vital to America; an expanding outlook is just as vital to America as an expanding economy. Indeed, the two are inseparable.
This RFC for travel I have suggested would make available sums to students— undergraduate and graduate both — for schooling-on-the-spot purposes. The sums would be in the form of long-range loans— not gifts or scholarships—on favorable terms. A boy of twenty not now able to travel or study abroad might do so if he
knew that he could repay the loan at a time when he is fairly well advanced in his career. Perhaps the loans might be for periods running from ten to fifteen years.
Please make no mistake about it. I do not advance this idea as any cure-all for the insufficiencies of modern education or as any sure-fire answer to- the multiple problems of American foreign policy. This idea is offered as an example of the type of training for world leadership and world citizenship upon which we are embarking as a people.
DELEGATES ARRIVE FROM FAR EASTERN COUNTRIES FOR N. Y. HERALD TRIBUNE HIGH SCHOOL FORUM
Twenty-five teen-age delegates to the annual Forum for High Schools, sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune, arrived in this country in December and January from countries in the Far East on a mission right in line with the suggestions advanced by Norman Cousins in his article elsewhere on this page.
All came by air—seventeen of them aboard Pan American World Airways Clippers.
Attendance at the forum is the basic reason for their journey to the United States, but occupies only a relatively small portion of the time they are devoting to visiting the United States. The forum itself takes place in an all day meeting at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City on March 4.
Meanwhile the delegates, selected from the countries which participated in the New Delhi Conference on Asian Affairs, are
visiting U. S. homes, and attending schools in New York City and suburbs. They have ten weeks to devote to this purpose, except for two weeks out to fly to Texas, to visit the Tennessee Valley Authority projects, and to go to Washington, D. C.
In New York and vicinity, they change hosts—and schools—every two- weeks in order that the visitors from abroad may have an opportunity to make as many new friends as possible, and so that many U. S. high school students will have the chance to meet and talk with the visitors from the Far East.
Countries represented this year in the delegation from abroad (in some cases there are two delegates from a country, in others one) are: Burma, Egypt, India, Indo-China, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, Malaya, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Syria, and Thailand.
TEEN-AGE VISITORS. The students shown In this picture were the first to arrive from abroad this year for the annual Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools. Sub-, sequent arrivals brought the total for this year to twenty-five.