Pan Amerícan
Jan-Feb., 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	11
The principal agricultural product is cotton. This is grown in the southern part of the coast, with the port of Pisco as the principal outlet for exports. Next to cotton is sugar. Some of the biggest sugar plantations are near Lima. In 1948, sugar production reached over 500,000 tons, according to U.S. Department of Commerce’s figures. Other agricultural crops are corn and quinua, Peruvian wheat. Potatoes are grown, likewise beans, barley and rice. Cinchona bark, from which comes quinine,-is another product of Peru, as is coca, the basis of cocaine. There is a considerable trade in wool, principally around Arequipa. It comes mainly from sheep, llamas and alpacas.
Manufacturing has developed considerably in recent years. Consumer goods of many types now supply a large part of the domestic market. The cotton textile industry supplies the entire domestic need for cheaper grades of cotton cloth. Other important manufactures include woolen goods, leather goods, cement, chemicals, tobacco, glass, paper, and foodstuffs. Peru exports chiefly crude petroleum and petroleum derivatives, sugar, copper bars and cotton, and imports machinery and vehicles, foodstuffs, textiles, metals and products, chemicals, dyes and paints. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce, in 1948 Peru exported to U.S.A. $35,190,000 and imported from this country $66,319,000.
AH to Please You
You will be glad to discover new foods and recipes in Peru.
“Peru offers a wide variety of native dishes,” answer two Peruvian friends to whom I put the question about food. “There are dishes, typical of the country and its background, to tempt any adventurer.”
I listen while my mouth waters.
Fish plays an important part of the diet, so much so that the fish was a symbol of good omen for the ancient pre-Inca city Pachacama, just south of Lima. One typical dish is “seviche.” (Cebiche which comes from cebolla which means onion.) Seviche is raw pickled fish. Strips of raw fish are “cooked” by the pickling action of salt, lemon juice and onion sauce. Aji (the Mexicans call it chili) is added to give the piquancy so characteristic of “seviche.”
“There are other typical dishes equally intriguing,” my friends continue.
With concentrated attention I write down the names: “Chupe de Camarones,” a delightful thick shrimp soup with eggs, rice, yellow potato and cream,; “la causa,” a paste of yellow potato with eggs; “tacutacu,” a combination of beans and rice, especially good the day after it has been prepared and heated (in the U.S. southland a similar dish goes by the name of Hoppin’ John) ; “esca-beche,” a pickled fish; “papas a la huan-caina,” “anticucho,” “mazamorra” graded kcorn cooked with milk, etc.
These few unusual items can give you only a mere suggestion of what is in store for you in Peru. Needless to say, you can eat exactly what you are used tO’ eating in your own home. But why not try something different?
In so far as entertainment is concerned Peru offers you a wide range of attractions. Peruvians, like Mexicans, are enthusiastic
about bull-fighting. They consider it a great sport, an exciting and colorful spectacle. A bull fighter who succeeds in Lima has to be good.
A “corrida” in the Plaza de Acho is a great event. Built in 1775 by the Spaniards before Peru became a republic, the Plaza itself is a fascinating arena. It towers, circular fashion, above a welter of small shops and bazaars which line the neighboring streets. The entrance is through arched doorways, leading to a large tiered arena. To sit in “sombra” or shade costs more than to' sit in “sol” or sun.
A band strikes up, there is clapping, and suddenly a gaudy procession composed of matadors, peons and attendants swings into the ring. Amid much applause, they take their places and accept the cheers of the crowd. Then, with a shrill blast of a single trumpet and a simultaneous roar of “el toro” the gate swings wide open and the star of this drama trots onto1 the stage. The rest is sheer drama: man against beast, and you wonder who will be the winner.
Not all is blood and sand, however. Lima particularly, offers many interesting spots. There is horse racing on the new race track near the Country Club in the San Isidro District; boxing at Manco Capac Coliseum; polo on the grounds of the Lima Polo and Hunt Club, golf, tennis, riding and so on.
There are several bathing beaches near Lima: La Herradura, a fine beach is twenty minutes by motor car from the capital ; Chorrillos is a residential suburb as well as a favorite summer resort for residents of the city; La Punta is a suburb situated on a point of land stretching out into the sea, and Ancon, a fashionable bathing resort, 25 miles north of Lima, with excellent facilities.
At night you can choose from a variety of things: you can drop in on art exhibits, lectures and the symphony, cocktails at the Hotel Bolivar’s grill or at the swanky Embassy. You may decide to walk into the out-of-the way streets and unexpectedly be able to hear the “marinera” a gay song of the people, accompanied by the guitar and marked by the beat on a wooden box. The choice is yours.
A Farewell and a Return
Whether you have remained two weeks, two months or two years your impressions of Peru will never fade. Lima, Cuzco, Arequipa, Machu Pichu, Misti will have left their imprint in your heart and memory. You will have bought in Lima souvenirs of all kinds: articles made from the fleece of the vicuñas, silver in every design, textiles woven by Indian craftsmen and crafts-women, vicuña rugs, soft and thick and of singular beauty, vicuña mats and bags.
If you have visited Arequipa you will remember the three peaks—Misti, Chachani, Pichu Pichu—which give the city an un-forgetful frame and may have learned what a poet wrote about the Misti: “Misti is dominant, unique, alone. Chachani and Pichu Pichu do' not accompany her, they contemplate her from a respectful distance.” It is a perfect cone with eternal snow.
You may have seen Machu Pichu never to be forgotten; but above all these unique experiences you will remember the Peruvians, their courteous disposition, their ever-present desire to please and be useful. Then you realize that through its people the development of Peru is really taking place. You can see it happen for it takes us no more than 18 hours to fly to Peru in a modern, fast and comfortable PAA Clipper.
PERU (NEAR CUZCO). The ruins of the fortress Sacsaihuaman exemplify the masonry work of the Incas, in which blocks were fitted together without mortar so skillfully that the walls have remained intact for many years.