AN AIR VIEW OF PERU TODAY
by Enrique Portes
“Lima, the beautiful city of the Kings, the fairest gem on the shores of the Pacific” and “Cusco . . (the) sanctified spot, venerated not only as the abode of the Incas but of all those deities who presided over the motley nations of the empire.”
— Prescott
In Peru you can visit Machu Pichu, the impressive ruins of an entire city set in the midst of surroundings of sublime beauty, a huddle of roofless white buildings of stone, admirably smoothed and polished and joined together. You may recall that Machu Pichu was discovered in 1911 by the American explorer-archeologist Hiram Bingham, later professor at Yale University and U.S. Senator from Connecticut.
You can visit the Quinta de Presa, once the home of “La Perricholi” who was the eighteenth century toast of Lima and Thornton Wilder’s heroine in The Bridge of San Luis Rey. You can gaze on the Misti, Peru’s most gorgeous mountain and Arequipa’s proud possession.
Peru offers these things and many more.
There are cities built on the top of towering mountains and railroads that run practically across the clouds. You can see irrigation projects and farm lands carved out of the side of steep mountain ranges with terraces which go up and up until they become lost in the spaces. Peru is famous for its mineral springs and thermal baths, its intimate beaches, imposing cathedrals, dainty chapels and monuments.
All these things may seem fantastically remote to you, yet it will take you less than eighteen hours to fly in a Pan American Clipper the 4000 miles that separate the skyscrapers of Manhattan from the wide boulevards and vice-regal atmosphere of Lima.
It is not until you are standing at the International Airport at Miami that your adventure in time really begins.
The wings of your gigantic Panagra plane loom in the gathering dusk of the
CUZCO. The llama is the Peruvian beast of He is descended from the wild guanaco, and agreeable habit of spitting when annoyed.
Florida night. The myriad lights of Miami disappear in the tropical air as you climb to 20,000 feet. Thirty minutes later you watch the outline of Cuba fade into the distance. Hours later you’re gliding to a stop at Albrook Field, Canal Zone, five hours away from Miami, ten from New York.
burden, also a source of meat and wool, like his cousin the camel he has a dis-
EDUCATIONAL AIR TRAVEL ABROAD, 1950
(International air tour opportunities are listed on pages 6 and 7.)
As a curtain raiser to the 1950 season of educational travel, the leading specialists on this subject will meet in Atlantic City in late February to consider mutual problems, and to devise ways and means of making such travel easier to undertake.
The National Conference on Educational Travel is scheduled for February 24, 25 and 26 in conj unction with the annual convention of the American Association of School Administrators.
It is the first time such a meeting has been called in connection with the AASA convention, and it was called this year because of the wide demand for information about travel for educational purposes, especially international travel, r •' cQ /
An agenda for the Atlantic City meeting was drawn up by a committee of twenty headed by Paul H. Kinsel, Director of the Division of Travel Service of the National Education Association. The committee met last November on the campus of the University of Indiana at Bloomington and drew up a program for development in work groups and panel discussions.
Subjects listed for consideration include: University, state education department and school system credit for travel ; financing of teacher and student travel ; selection of tour leaders ; screening of members of tour groups ; passports, visas and other documentation; and ways and means of advertising (Conntinued on Page 6)
After a brief pause, your plane is airborne again and below you the lush green forests of Panama give way to the open sea. You fly over the Pacific. You leave behind Buenaventura, Colombia,; thirteen and a half hours out of New York you fly high above Guayaquil, Ecuador. Dawn is breaking and the sun pushes back the dark shadows across the Peruvian coast on your left.
Soon the steel derricks of Talara stand out in the dim light, announcing their opulence in oil. Then Piura, Trujillo; the crumbling walls of Chan-Chan rush back as your plane speeds along. The plane turns inland; the brown desert gives way to fertile soil. Green valleys come into view and then these suddenly give way to a sight that is bound to thrill you.
There in the purple foothills of the Andes the wide modern boulevards and lordly white buildings stand out in monumental glory. It is Lima ! Your PAA plane makes a wide sweeping arc over the sprawling capital and rolls to a stop at Limatambo Airport. You are in Peru, treasure land of legend, art and culture.
(Continued on Page 8)