Pah American
World Airways Teacher	Jan.-Feb., 1950
Ea/v Americas
World Alrivayn Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1950, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Educational Travel
The American Association of School Administrators this year, for the first time, has included on the agenda of its annual convention a special conference on the subject of educational travel. The special travel meeting will take place in Atlantic City February 24, 25 and 26, just prior to the opening of the regular AASA meetings.
The very fact that there will be such a meeting points up the fact that travel for education purposes has taken on the same type of importance, in the minds of many educators, as other forms of training for teachers. Many educators now consider that it is just as important for teachers to devote time to travel as it is to work for postgraduate degrees, to attend summer sessions at teachers colleges and to participate in other forms of in-service training.
The special meeting on educational travel at Atlantic City has a number of topics listed for consideration, some of which are concerned primarily with the mechanics of travel, as how to organize a travel group, select leaders for it, arrange for transportation and meet the problems of arranging for passports, visas and other documentation.
Of more general interest are two basic problems which those responsible for organizing the conference hope to make some progress toward solving.
They are :
(1)	How can the granting of academic and other types of credit for travel be made more wide spread?
Some universities now grant semester hour credits for travel, provided stipulated requirements are met. State departments of education in many cases allow a certain amount of certification credit for travel. Some school systems allow credit for travel in their schedules of requirements for salary advancement. The Atlantic City travel conference will seek ways and means of making all of these practices more wide spread.
(2)	Some School Superintendents and Boards of Education encourage their teachers to travel, and endeavor to facilitate their doing so. Others have not yet come to grips with the idea. Accordingly, another basic objective of the travel conference will be to acquaint as many school superintendents as possible with the benefits which their school systems can derive through travel by their teachers, and with the means by which such travel may be facilitated.
Clipper Models
When we attend meetings and set up displays we usually borrow from the company’s display department a model of one of the Clippers—the same type of model that you will see in the window of a PAA ticket office or a travel agent.
They are handsome models; at least we think they are. A lot of school people seem to agree, because they always come up to the booth and say, half-jokingly, “I’ll take the model home when you’re through with it!”
That isn’t practicable, of course, and our friends who make the suggestion admit it, but they’d still like to have models.
Well, it’s possible now, and the cost is next to nothing. Or it is just a dollar more than nothing—to be accurate. This model isn’t exactly a window display or exhibit booth type, of course, but it is authentic, it is suitable for classroom use, and more importantly, it is readily available. The model is a 12-inch wing span reproduction of the Double Decked Clipper, the airplane also known as the Boeing Stratocruiser.
It comes in a pre-fabricated kit produced by the Yortex Plastic Company of Brooklyn, and can be assembled in a half hour or less
by a twelve-year-old boy. All parts are finished, and need only be assembled using plastic cement furnished with the kit. Exterior trim and official markings are applied in actual colors by means of decals.
The cost of the kit, as intimated above, is one dollar, and we are not selling it. You probably can get the kit right in your own home town at a hobby shop, department store and in Woolworth’s and other five and ten cent stores. Distribution to these retail outlets has just started, and the kits should be available for purchase by the time this issue of World Airways Teacher reaches you. Ask for the Pan American World Airways Double Decked Clipper Model.
A photograph of an assembled Double Decked Clipper Model is reproduced on this page.
Folk Dancing
To know a country’s geography, political philosophy and economy is good, but only a part of the story. For true understanding one must know what its people enjoy eating, what music they play and what dances they like.
Teaching the folk dances of a number of our good neighbor countries will be made (Continued on Page 6)
*'«**'•>
CLIPPER MODEL. The Pan American World Airways Double Decked Clipper model can be assembled by a twelve year old boy.