Pan American
World Airways Tracker
CAPRI. This is a view of the lovely island which has figured so prominently in the history of Italy and in stories about the country. This view shows Marina Grande.
have wide boulevards and large public buildings while other portions contain Gothic cathedrals, the thirteenth century University of Naples and numerous old castles. The city is an important industrial center especially noted for its exports of fruit, nuts, wine and brandy. Leading manufacturers include ships machinery; macaroni; glass ; cotton and silk fabrics ; jewelry; china; perfumery; and soap.
Rural Italy
Despite the importance of its cities, Italy is primarily an agricultural country. More than 90% of the total land area of the country is fit for cultivation and almost half of the working population are engaged in agriculture or fishing. Fertile well-drained soil and a favorable climate permit the production of a variety of crops; often more than one crop a season.
Wheat is the leading grain produced but corn, barley, oats, rye and rice are also cultivated. The nation’s most valuable agricultural products however are fruits, particularly the olive, which is one of its chief exports. Oranges, lemons and almonds are raised extensively in the southern regions. One of the country’s outstanding products is silk which comes from the northern region. Dairy farming and the raising of livestock are becoming increasingly important but are restricted because of the scarcity of suitable grazing lands.
In both agriculture and industry wages are low. The relatively poor economic situation of many Italians, and the crowded condition of the country as a whole, has led many citizens to emigrate to foreign shores where greater opportunities exist.
Unsatisfactory economic conditions undoubtedly were one of the main reasons for that nation’s acceptance of the Fascist form of government as a cure-all for economic difficulties.
The humiliation which accompanied the realization that they had taken the wrong path to “greatness” was bitter but the Italian people of today look to the future with in-
creasing confidence. In December 1947 a new constitution was signed in Rome proclaiming the nation to be a democracy. Provision was made for a President, Premier, a Cabinet and a Bicameral Legislature. The new constitution which took effect on January 1, 1948 contains one-hundred-and-forty articles. The article declaring Italy to be a democratic republic is the only one which cannot be amended.
The people of the United States welcomed the new republic with the same pleasure as our country welcomed the new Kingdom of Italy into the family of nations in 1870. Through the Marshall Plan, the United States has extended financial aid to Italy which is designed to help that country reestablish its industry and regain its economic stability and prosperity. These material ties are further strengthened by the spiritual bond which exists between the many people of Italian descent within our borders and the people of Italy.
OVER THE WORLD
(Continued from Page 2)
easier by a set of books of which review copies have been sent us by A. S. Barnes & Co., New York. They comprise the Folk Dance Library, and the volumes include “The Teaching of Folk Dance,” “Folk Dances of the British Isles,” “Folk Dances of the United States and Mexico,” “Folk Dances of Scandinavia” and “Folk Dances of European Countries.”
The four books on the dances of various countries give directions for executing the dances by means of text, pictures and diagrams, and in many cases the appropriate music is included. The general volume on teaching of folk dances offers a wealth of suggestions not only as to pedagogy, but also with respect to class activities, entertainments and parties.
The books may be purchased as a set ($15) or separately ($3 each). The address is A. S. Barnes & Co., 101 Fifth Avenue, New York 3, N Y.	q q
Jan.-Feb., 1950
EDUCATIONAL AIR TRAVEL
(Continued from Page 1) educational travel by groups and individuals.
One general session will be devoted specifically to the matter of furnishing information to school administrators who are just now beginning to set up programs of education travel in their school systems.
The meeting focusses attention on the new developments in educational travel which promise to make 1950 the biggest year to date for travel by educators and students.
Groups for air tours abroad are being organized all over the country. Below are summaries of the plans for tours about which information was available February 1: FLYING CLASSROOM TO EUROPE. , —Prof. Carl Horn, of Michigan State College, who has organized groups of school superintendents for air tours of the United States with great success, this year will operate a Flying Classroom to Europe—also for school administrators. Participation of sixty or more already is assured.
The group will fly to Europe via Pan American World Airways in March, and will devote six weeks to a tour taking them to Paris, Rome, Zurich, Frankfurt, Berlin, Copenhagen, Helsinki, Stockholm, Oslo, Amsterdam, Brussels and London.
This tour is to be an annual affair, and there probably will be at least two groups of sixty or more in 1951.
For information, write to:
Prof. Carl Horn,
Director of Continuing Education Michigan State College,
Lansing, Mich.
N.E.A. TOURS TO CENTRAL AMERICA AND HONOLULU. The Division of Travel Service of N.E.A. offers tours of various types to N.E.A. members, including an air tour of the Central American countries, and another for travel to Hawaii.
Write to:
Division of Travel Service,
National Education Association 1201 Sixteenth Street N.W. Washington, D. C.
PROSPECT HALL AIR TOUR TO NASSAU. Twenty-two students from Prospect Hall Secretarial School for Girls at Milwaukee, Wisconsin, will fly via Pan American Clipper to Nassau for a “Winter Session” during March.
The girls will attend classes while staying at the British Colonial Hotel; classes will be conducted on the hotel terraces in the morning only.
This is the third year that the Prospect Hall group has made the trip to Nassau, a project that certainly entitles Prospect Hall to recognition as a pioneer in educational travel for secretarial students.
The Prospect Hall tour is for students of that school only, but any one interested in further information about it may obtain same by writing to:
Miss Elizabeth S. Dodge, President, Prospect Hall Milwaukee 2, Wisconsin UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON TOURS. Mexico and Guatemala are the destinations of the international study tours offered this year by the University of Houston. It is the seventh year for the Houston tour program.