Pan Amfrícan
October, 1949	WORLD AiRWAYS TEACHER
Argentine Automobile Association even maintains planes and flying fields to service its members quickly on remote roads, fly in repairs or get passengers quickly on to their destination while car repairs are being made.
In the international field, Argentina enjoys a great advantage. Buenos Aires is served by Pan American World Airways and its associate, Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra). Three-hour flight schedules are maintained between Buenos Aires and Santiago de Chile, by Panagra. In addition to PAA service and the lines of other Latin American countries, Argentina is connected with the world by means of French, Spanish and Italian airlines. The national companies are identified as ALFA, FAMA, LADE and ZONDA. They operated 23,183 air-route miles in 1947.
In 1947 there were 59 Flying Clubs in Argentina and 442 registered aircraft.
Education and Welfare
Argentina recognized the need for public education from the very moment it became independent. The great name in the history of Argentine education, however, is that of President Sarmiento, whose study of public education in the United States convinced him that a similar system was possible in his country. Upon his inauguration as President, Sarmiento launched a vigorous campaign against illiteracy. More than 1000 primary schools were established, and trained teachers from U.S.A. were called to set up normal schools.
At the present time, education in Argentina is the joint responsibility of the national and the provincial governments, each caring for about one-half of the children enrolled in the schools.
According to the magazine “Argentina”, June, 1949 issue, published by the Argentine Embassy in Washington, there are 15,000 elementary schools throughout the country in which more than 2,000,000 pupils are enrolled. Education is free and attendance compulsory which cover seven years, children beginning at the age of six. Books and even clothes are provided for those who cannot afford them. As a matter of fact, white uniforms are required for all children in the elementary grades as well as for high school girls and normal school students.
Secondary education is maintained both by privately endowed institutions and by the national government. There are nearly 300 colegios or liceos offering college-preparatory courses in the Republic. A notable feature of the colegios is the important social service they render through extension work, adult education, and cooperation with the community.
There is, of course, a well-organized system of commercial, industrial and technical schools. Buenos Aires is the center of a widespread movement in adult education. Teacher training is provided by nearly 100 normal schools, the curriculum varying in length from two to seven years. The shorter courses are arranged to meet the needs of teachers preparing for service in the rural areas, where local problems form the core of educational activities.
There are six official institutions of higher learning—the Universities of Buenos Aires, Córdoba, La Plata, Tucuman, El Litoral, and Cuyo, and one private institution, the
Catholic University. Of these, the largest is the University of Buenos Aires, and the oldest, the University of Cordoba, founded in 1613.
About 200 parent-teacher associations exist throughout the Republic, maintaining a program of social services that includes the establishment and financing of school restaurants, free lunches, and free medical aid. They also set up children’s libraries, and purchase textbooks, radios and moving picture equipment.
Just as education is a great factor in the advancement of a people, Argentina considers social welfare today a primary duty of the state. Benefits are granted to the people without discrimination as to race, creed, sex or age. Assistance is given to the blind, minor and adult, to expectant mothers, to the aged and destitute. Free medical aid is rendered through regional hospitals, health centers, public clinics, etc. Blind persons are taken care of by the State. Blind persons receive through the proper agencies medicine, glasses, canes and scholarships for primary, elementary, advanced, manual and normal schools. There are many types of workshops for the employment of the blind such as Braille printing plant, shops for typists, for weaving, a radio and telephone laboratory, and factories for the making of mattresses, furniture and toys. “The social welfare work being done in Argentina,” a government official said, recently, “is an integral part of the development of the nation.”
Land of Milk and Honey
Argentines are among the best nourished people in the world. The feeling of milk and honey abundance is everywhere. When it comes to serving a good meal Argentina can be awarded first prize. It is truly eating
in the grand manner, such as one usuallly finds only in fiction. If market facilities can be used as a yardstick, all you have to do is to visit the Mercado del Plata in the heart of Buenos Aires. The view it offers is magnificent. Cabbages and carrots and egg plants are subjects of beauty when you see the great emporium. They are polished and arranged so each vegetable harmonizes in color with its neighbor.
Food shops and restaurants can be found everywhere. Pasta shops are filled with huge bundles of spaghetti. Heads of cheese are stacked ceiling high in nearby stores. Plump, baked turkeys lie in inviting elegance in the windows of delicatessens. And there is so much good, fresh meat for sale in every city in the country. Besides almacenes, ferias, mercados, fruterías and ver-durerías* to keep the people from ever knowing the pangs of hunger, hundreds of carts filled with fruit and vegetables stop from house to house every morning through the year.
An interesting thing to see in Buenos Aires is a feria or big open air market. The feria people wear white uniforms and are very friendly. Part of the feria is devoted to flowers. In one section you can buy strawberries, cherries, bananas. In others you select your vegetables or meat—cuts of all kinds. Here and there dressed chickens hang fat and naked from the top of each stall. Then come booths with mountains of fresh eggs, others with thick, sweet cream and cheese of every variety, some with spaghetti, and last of all the fish.
In Buenos Aires as in any city of the country there are hundreds of eating places. You may have your breakfast at a bar or
* Stores, fairs, market places, fruit stores and vegetable stores.
HORSES. Whether it is racing, polo, showmanship, or riding for fun, Argentina is in the forefront when it comes to horses. This picture was taken at Estancio haras de la Pomme, with the ranch manager posing outside the stall of a favorite mare and her colt.