Pa/v Amfrfcan
World Airways Teacher	October, 1949
sidewalk café. Your lunch you may take in a small restaurant just like one of Child’s in New York. You may drink tea in one of the dozens of salones de te in the center of the city, where four or five kinds of sandwiches are brought to you on a heaping platter together with a dozen small valentine-like cakes. You can eat to a tune of a tango, American jazz, a Strauss waltz or a rhumba. You may stay for the cocktail hour and with your San Martin will be brought free an assortment of cheese, crackers, sausages, potato chips and peanuts. A second cocktail will entitle you a repeat on the free lunch. Isn’t that inviting?
There are famous restaurants in Buenos Aires. La Cabaña is one of them. The whole place is. in typical criollo style. The baby bifes, which fill a plate and are at least two inches thick, are brought to the table on individual charcoal staves. It’s even more delicious when you wash down these big pieces of beef with red wine.
In Buenos Aires there are restaurants for every kind of food. There is French, Spanish, Argentine, American, Russian and Italian cooking. A chicken a la Maryland made in Argentina has no equal. The chicken is fried in meal after the bones have been removed. With it is served creamed corn in patty shells, banana fritters which have been dipped in orange juice, and fresh peas.
If you ask for a typical Argentine dish, some one will mention at once the bife, the asado or barbecue, a special criollo steak sauce, puchero, and the empanada, which is as famous in Argentina as in Chile. The empanada is a fried meat pie eaten at quick lunch stands before an evening at the movies. It is also a first course in fine restaurants and homes and a favorite at cocktail
parties. There are many kinds of empanada —chicken, ground beef, corn, cheese and fruit. The most popular is ground meat, with chopped olives, hard-boiled eggs and raisins blended together. There is one dish which is hardly listed in a menu. It is the humita con choclo. It looks like an oversized tamale, but it is not hot. Corn is the basic ingredient, and if you like corn, humitas will delight you.
Argentines eat more meat than any other people in the world. The per capita average —according to an Argentine journal—is 300 pounds of meat a year, of which 88 per cent is beef. Americans long envied by the rest of the world as great meat consumers must fold up their napkins and watch when an Argentine enters the dining room. Americans have long been regarded as something like vegetarians by their River Plate neighbors.
Wealth and Communications
You will be mistaken if you still regard Argentina as a great cattle-and-wheat center with only a few fledgling industries. If you drive outside towns you will find expanding factory areas. Argentine industry has in the war and post-war period reached the point where it now accounts for at least half the national income, tops everything else in Latin America and seems well on the way to new heights.
Industry has expanded more rapidly than agriculture in recent years. The leading industries are those devoted to the processing of agricultural products. The textile industry has grown tremendously as well as leather and chemical manufactures. Other industries include cement, paper, electrical equipment, tires, glass, pharmaceuticals, and fabricated iron and steel products Blast
furnaces built in recent years are producing iron and steel which Argentina uses to make tanks and planes for the army. The new fast plane called the “Nancu” is also built in Argentina, as are jet propelled planes.
Argentina’s agriculture resembles that of the United States. It is conducted largely in the temperate zone and is more diversified than that of most Latin American countries. Out of the land during 1947 came some 1,387,400 tons of wheat,
5.815.000	tons of corn, 1,034,000 tons of flax, 5,068,000 tons of rye, 1,235,200 tons of barley as well as oats, birdseed, rice, linseed, cotton, sugar, tobacco, citrus fruits, potatoes, etc.
Great herds of livestock roam the vast plains, including 34,000,000 head of cattle, 56,000,000 sheep, 8,000,000 hogs, 7,500,000-horses, and over 3,000,000 goats and over
500.000	mules Over 8,000,000 cattle hides and 17,000,000 sheepskins were available for shipment in 1947. Frozen and canned meat is exported. The largest refrigeration plant in the world is in Buenos Aires.
Deposits of silver, copper and gold as well as petroleum are exploited by the government and private companies. The wells in the Comodoro Rivadavia region stand first among the country’s producers. A new gas pipeline—-the gasoducto—twisting through wilderness, now lacks only 125 miles of its completed span of about 1,100 between Buenos Aires and the southern oil port of Comodoro Rivadavia. This project is expected to be put in operation in December, 1949.
Argentina has the best rail transportation in Latin America. In 1941 there were 28,775 miles of track, over which nearly 168 million passengers traveled. In 1949 Argentina paid Great Britain 150,000,000 pounds for the British railway system so that now all the railways belong to the nation. An important rail link, opened (Feb. 1948) between Salta, Argentina and Antofagasta, Chile, called the Transandine of the North, is 543 miles long. There are 36,506 miles of roads plus river transportation which greatly facilitate commerce. There are more than 5,000 public telegraph offices and over 30,000 miles of line in operation. To these means of communications must be added the great radio stations of “Radio Belgrano,” “Red Splendid,” “Radio El Mundo,” “Radio del Estado” and “Radio Ovidio Lagos.”
Culture and the Arts
Many Argentine statesmen have made distinguished contributions to Spanish American letters. Juan Bautista Alberdi (1810-1884) had a remarkable influence on the political thinking of his day. Domingo Faustino Sarmiento (1811-1888) gained international fame for his Facundo, o la Civilización y la Barbarie; this study of the career of one of tyrant Rosas’ caudillos gives at the same time considerable insight into Argentine history, customs and temperament. Barlotomé Mitre (1821-1906) founded the Buenos Aires La Nación and wrote the most enduring literary achievement : his biography of San Martin.
Argentine literature stands high in the continent. Classic works are today José Hernández’ (1834-1886) Martín Fierro, the epic poem of gaucho life; Enrique Rodríguez Larreta’s (1875-) La Gloria de
ROPE WORK. Afoot or on horseback the Argentine gaucho is dexterous at roping cattle. This gaucho demonstrates roping on foot while working near the small cow town, 9 de Julio.