Pan Amer rcA at
World Airways Teacher	October, 1949
which extend in a semicircle around Buenos Aires with an average radius of 350 miles. The soil of the pampas, incredibly fertile, is a rich, black alluvial deposit varying in depth from seven to eleven feet. No wonder the pampas produce 90 per cent of the grain and 60 per cent of the livestock of the country.
The pampas are lovely in March when the grass is in bloom—the landscape brightened by creamy white tassels swaying in the breeze on top of green stalks eight and ten feet tall. The pampa has a fascination, a strange air of the sea as though the sea had suddenly turned to solid earth. This illusion is increased at sunrise and sunset when the coloring and cloud effects are as spectacular as any seen at sea. The illusion is even more real at night, when the cool breeze blows across the plains and the stars shining out of the black dome seem to be just beyond reach.
The ombú is the only indigenous tree of the pampas. No plant has such an important place in the tradition of a people as the ombú has in the songs and stories of the Argentines. The ombú has an enormous trunk, and its great spreading branches shade an immense space of ground; its knotted roots protrude from the ground in strange shapes, forming convenient resting places for tired horsemen.
Argentine poets have called the ombú “the lighthouse of the pampas” because in the days of the gaucho it frequently was the only object to be seen for miles in the sea-like plains. Some ombús are associated with great historic events in the life of the country. The ombú of Hope, for instance, is so called because San Martin and the other great men of his day, Juan Martín de Pueyrredón and Tomás Guido, seated on its enormous roots, made a solemn vow to continue the struggle for the independence of Argentina. The Ombú of Pedriel was a mute witness to one of the important battles of the British invasion.
Pórtenos Love their City
Buenos Aires stands proudly at the edge of the pampas, but porteños* live the same sort of life that New Yorkers do, except that they live it more leisurely.
It is one of the world’s largest, busiest and most splendid cities; the largest south of the Equator, and the third in western hemisphere, being surpassed only by New York and Chicago. The three million people (and the million more counted in the metropolitan area in April, 1948 census) give it a quarter of Argentina’s 16 million total.
There is no two-hour closing of shops for a mid-day siesta, no dull moment at any time. The city has one of the busiest suburban train services in the world. There are subway lines, rail and buses.
The “colectivos,” of course, should not be forgotten. They are in a class by themselves. The “colectivo” is equivalent to the Southern jitney. It is an automobile which has a permit to run as a bus would, that is, on a chartered route and with fixed stops and fares. The porteño who has a good sense of humor says that the colectivo, which has the right to transport 10 people, will take 30 because the driver interprets his permit to mean 10 standing, 10 sitting
* Citizens of Buenos Aires are called porteños for port
of Buenos Aires.
WASHINGTON. The Father of His Country in the United States is an honored personage in the Argentine. This statue of George Washington was presented by U. S. citizens residing in Buenos Aires at the centennial of independence and stands in the Parque Palermo.
and 10 lying on the floor. Often he adds 10 hanging on the outside.
Buenos Aires lies on the banks of the Rio de la Plata, which is here 28 miles wide, and is 170 miles from the Atlantic ocean. The city has six public gardens, twenty-one parks and 130 plazas. Many of the principal streets and avenues are bordered with beautiful flowering trees. The new diagonal Avenida Roque Saenz Peña, with its uniform skyline and architecture is a great thoroughfare.
Up-to-date air-conditioned apartment houses are replacing the old. Most of the new office structures provide basement garages and there is a municipal underground garage providing parking space for 2000 cars under the Avenida 9 de Mayo.
During shopping hours traffic is banned from Calle Florida, which is jammed with strollers, shoppers and salesmen. The international flavor impresses the minute you walk along the boulevards. Sidewalk cafés and ultra-modern confiterías (a combination tea house, pastry shop and cocktail lounge on a big scale) where you go for tea, cakes, ices and vermouth and soda, are found everywhere. The love of crowds, excitement, bright lights and the theatres that pack Calle Lavalle and Corrientes—the Broadway of Argentina—is dominant, and everywhere there are new restaurants where you can gorge yourself with the best of foods.
Buenos Aires is proud of its famous parks. Plaza de Mayo is one of them where the life of the capital has centered since early days. At one corner of the plaza is the old cathedral. On the outer wall of this huge and magnificent temple burns an eternal flame lighted to the memory of Argentina’s greatest patriot, General José de San Martín. Across the street from the cathedral is the city hall, a splendid building with beautiful reception rooms and a gallery of art treasures. One side of the building faces
Avenida de Mayo, which like Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D. G, is lined with lacy pepper trees, and stretching its ten-block length between the Casa Rosada (Argentina’s White House) and the Congress building.
The Teatro Colón, Buenos Aires’ Opera House, is one of the finest in the world. It is an occasion and a real treat to attend the opera or a concert at the Colon Theater.
A unique feature of the Colon is the way it handles the problem of people who are in mourning. The theater has heavily grilled boxes which permit those in mourning to enjoy the opera without being seen by others. Since it is not socially proper to attend public functions, access to the mourning boxes is from a dark street on the other side of the theater from the gaily lighted entrance. This etiquette, however, is breaking down today.
Buenos Aires is one of the great publishing centers of the world. There is a reason for that. Argentines are great book readers. Bookstores can be found everywhere and they stay open late. You can spend hours reading in a bookshop and salesmen politely ignore you.
Bookstores carry not only the best in Spanish but in French and English as well. It is a common thing to see a Spanish translation of an American best seller reach the shelves a few weeks after the English-language original has arrived in the country.
Porteños are thoroughly familiar with the works of John Dos Passos, Sinclair Lewis, Ernest Hemingway, Sherwood Anderson and many others. You may find Dos Passos’ La Primera catástrofe, El gran dinero, and Rocinante vuelve al camino, also Kathleen Windsor’s Por siempre Ambar, John Steinbeck’s Los arrabales de Cannery to mention only a few. In fact, American best sellers in U.S. are quite often best sellers in Argentina also. Needless to say that Argentines are proud of the two great dailies published in Buenos Aires: La Nación and La Prensa.
And, of course, you realize the moment you arrive that Buenos Aires is a city of music. You will drink your coffee, tea or maté to music, the poor and rich eat and drink to music. Unlike other large capitals where people are apt to lose contact with their acquaintances, in Buenos Aires you never feel alone. Strolling along Avenida Corrientes, Avenida de Mayo or Calle Florida jmu are bound to meet one friend after another. It is a beautiful city and when you know the people you will find them friendly, generous and simpáticos.
Aviation over the Pampas
Like the rest of Latin America, Argentina has taken to the air in a big way. Aviation has supplied a quick solution for passenger and freight services to formerly isolated areas. Whole new districts have not only been brought to the doorsteps of the modern world, but they have been put to new productive use, and received the impulse of modern civilization.
Argentina has encouraged aviation ill every respect during the war years am since. Orders worth millions of pesos have been placed for big pressure-cabin planes to be used in transatlantic and trans-Andean flights. Today scarcely a corner of Argentina is without regular plane service. The