10
ARC DE TRIOMPHE. Of the famous sights of Paris, none excels the Arc de Triomphe in international renown. Underneath the central arch is the tomb of France's unknown soldier of World War I.
though the Romans came as invaders to what was then the city of Lutetia (inhabited by a tribe of Parisii) they were entranced with it—captivated by the Seine, the bridges, the wine and the happy people—and they made it into a provincial social resort of palaces, villas and paved roads during their centuries of power.
The Parisii stayed on through the Roman occupation and with the decline of that empire in the fifth century Lutetia began to be called Paris. These Parisians have been “staying on” ever since. Throughout twenty centuries their conquerors, the Romans, the Huns, the Franks, the Norsemen, the English and the Germans have come and gone to become mere names in books but Paris still lives. This permanency in the midst of change and continuity of places and purpose is the real spirit of Paris which makes it different from all other cities.
As the heart of one of the world’s great civilizations Paris has been a leading center of art, literature, education and style for about nine hundred years. The French were noted for their taste in fashions when Christopher Columbus was setting out across the Atlantic. Shortly after our Pilgrim Fathers landed on their barren Plymouth Rock in 1620 Louis XIV began his long, record-breaking reign of seventy-two years. The magnificence of his Court dazzled the world and he built France into the most powerful state in Europe. Under his influence, French became the language of international diplomacy, a position it still maintains.
France and America
The adventures of France in the New World began in 1634 when a French explorer Jean Nicolet reached Green Bay on the western shore of Lake Michigan making the French the first Europeans to reach the heart of North America and the first to set sail on the Great Lakes.
Jean Nicolet captured the affection of the
Pam American
iVo/uD Aœways Teacher
Huron Indians by his genuine friendliness and charming manners and lived with them for two years, learning their language and going on voyages with them. Other Frenchmen followed and as fur trappers, explorers and missionaries, sailed up and down the St. Lawrence and the Mississippi Rivers.
Although the French were in America for nearly two centuries and furnished it with some of the most heroic and romantic chapters in its history of exploration and colonization, by the end of the eighteenth century physical ties to France vanished. However, French names are still common in the Great Lakes Region and French is still spoken by two million Canadians along the St. Lawrence and by many people along the lower Mississippi around New Orleans.
In contrast, spiritual ties between America and France continued to> grow stronger with each passing year. France was the first great power of Europe to establish a lasting democracy. The growth of democratic ideas sprang up at the same time as in the Thirteen Colonies, and a few years after our own American Revolutionary War, the ideal of freedom for the common man was proclaimed in Europe by the French Revolution. Out of that struggle came Napoleon, whom the French revere as a great military leader, and founder of the Code Napoleon which is still in effect today. Napoleon rose and fell but the France of ideas lived on.
French aid played an important part in American success in the Revolution. The sympathies of the French people were first expressed in outward acts of individuals and later by the French Government to which the Continental Congress first directed its diplomatic efforts to obtain recognition in the family of nations.
In the first year of the war French secret aid was sent to keep the struggle alive but after American success at Saratoga negotiations carried on by Benjamin P'ranklin resulted in a Treaty of Amity and Commerce and a Treaty of Alliance. Some of
BOOKS. The outdoor book and print shops are as much a part of Paris as the Left Bank, the outdoor cafes and Paris fashions.
October, 1949
ART. Every artist wants to study in France, and every visitor to France wants to see the artists. The latter is easy enough, as many artists work out of doors, as the tourists in this picture discovered.
this aid was given because of France’s desire to avenge humiliation by England but about 45,000 Frenchmen crossed the Atlantic to help our struggle when nearly all the world was opposed to the desire of the Thirteen Colonies to be free.
In the same spirit and based on the same combination of self-interest and belief in the right of men to be free, the United States, now a powerful nation, acted as France’s ally in 1917 and 1941 when that country was invaded.
Government and Education
France is a republic with a government somewhat similar to> that of the United States. However its president is not elected by the people but by two houses of a national legislative body. His term is seven years in length and he may be reelected.
The legislative branch of the government is composed of a, Chamber of Deputies and a Senate. The members of the Chamber serve four years with Senate members serving nine year terms. A ministry corresponding to our presidential cabinet is chosen by the president and is responsible to the national legislature.
France is divided into ninety departments corresponding to states. These departments are relatively small in size as is evident by the fact that all of France could fit into our two states of Utah and Nevada. Each department is governed by a prefect appointed by the president and assisted by an elected council. Departments are further divided into arrondissements, arrondissements into cantons, and cantons into communes.
France has colonies scattered over the world. Those in Africa are the most important but there are also valuable possessions in Asia, South America and Oceania. Their total area is about 4,618,000 square miles with an estimated population of about 63,850,000. Through her colonies in North Africa and protectorates over Tunisia and Morocco, France has become one of the