Pan Amfrîcan
October, 1949	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
gal; and Barcelona, Spain to Marseilles three times every week. The Clippers connect at Lisbon with Panair do Brasil schedules to Paris and at London with various services to Paris on the hour long hop between the two capitals across the English Channel. Airlines from every country in the world including the United States also maintain direct service from every city of importance to Orly Airport at Paris.
Surface travel facilities within France are excellent. A network of 26,000 miles of railroads covers the country and lines not government owned are closely supervised by the state. Since the war express trains have been speeded up and run on full and frequent schedules. Sleeping cars and ‘couchettes’ have been added to a number of runs and all trains are more than comfortable.
Fast and comfortable motor coaches on rails and running under their own power, known as Autorails are also available to travelers. Even by using ordinary bus lines, visitors can travel everywhere in France. There are over 394,110 miles of excellent roadways. During the summer, special motor-coach tours sponsored by the French National Railroads, visit many picturesque areas including Normandy, Brittany, the Chateaux Country of the Loire, the Pyrenees, and the Alps.
On To Paris
Of course Paris is the heart of France and all roads, railroads and air routes lead to the Capital. But there are thirty-five million French who do not live in Paris and who will be quick to tell you that Paris is not all of France. They contend that the French provinces and the people in them are the major and most representative sections of the country and that French provincials are the backbone of the nation. The traveler in France will undoubtedly head for Paris but there are many ways to arrive at this destination and the parts of the country seen before reaching this ultimate goal will be in direct proportion to one’s real understanding of the French way of life. From Marseilles on the Mediterranean any number of routes to the Capital may be taken and each one of the provinces traveled through will have its own character, architecture and customs.
Exploring the provinces along the Riviera or “Cote d’Azur” will reveal scenes of blue sea, white sand and brilliant sun. This very special vacation paradise along the Mediterranean Coast offers the excitement of large cities as well as the charm of small villages. More than any other city, Nice expresses the charm of this section of France. In a sense it is a Mediterranean capital. Traditionally a residential city, it has become the business and transportation center of the Riviera as well as a center of intellectual activities and brilliant entertainments. Another major Mediterranean city is the busy port of Marseilles through which passes an important part of French foreign trade. Its busy docks have been the scene of never ending commercial activity through the centuries ever since the city was founded.
In contrast, travelers wishing an unusual experience can visit Corsica, only a few hours from Nice or Marseilles. This tiny island, isolated for centuries has preserved its natural characteristics and its people,
costumes, language and customs have not been deeply affected by the march of progress. Today Corsica remains a land of rugged grandeur, wild vegetation, waterfalls and flowers, and over all rests the indelible imprint of its most notable son, Napoleon.
From the southern coast one may travel along the Pyrenean Llighway through the Basque country and on to Bordeaux, Tours, Orleans and Lourdes, some of the country’s oldest and most gracious cities. Along the Pyrenees are such masterpieces of medieval military architecture as the fortress of Villefranche de Confient, built entirely of rose colored marble as well as scenery of majestic beauty. Along the Loire River is the chateaux country of France, said to be one of the most beautiful sections in all of Europe.
The Loire, a meandering stream that runs through low hills and fertile farm-lands, traverses this countryside and along its banks and those of tributary streams still stand the great chateaux that were built in medieval times together with the little towns that clustered about them. Most of the great castles were erected by kings and princes who naturally selected the most pleasant surroundings they could find for their homes and lodges. It is only a matter of hours from Tours the center of the Chateaux Country, to Paris.
La Plus Belle Cite
Paris is located on the banks of the twisting Seine River which is spanned by fine bridges and bordered by stone quays. On the Ile de la Cité in the center of the river are many public buildings. The streets have no definite plan but there are many wide tree-lined boulevards unsurpassed in beauty and the transportation system includes buses, subways and taxis. Surrounding the oldest section of the city are the Grands Boulevards, another circle circum-
scribes the old suburbs while still another circle extends to the newer suburbs.
Paris is a brilliant market-place of ideas, tastes and goods of every kind. Appraised by many as the most beautiful metropolis in the world, it is said that “in Paris, history, poetry and art sit on every doorstep and set the backdrop for every day living”. The ancient winding streets, the sidewalk cafes, the fine shops, the lovely public gardens and parks, and the scintillating crowds all combine to make the city an endless panorama of human warmth and culture. A list of the things to do and see in Paris would be endless. Notre Dame, the Conciergerie, St. Chapelle, the Sorbonne, the Panteon, the Louvre, the Latin Quarter, Montparnasse, the Invalides, the Eiffel Tower, the Madeleine, the main boulevards, Tuileries, the Concorde, the Champs Elysees, the Arc de Triomphe, Sacre Coeur and Montmartre: are only a start.
The area surrounding Paris is also rich with interesting places to see and visit. There is Versailles, its chateau, its gardens, the Trianon and the Little Trianon which afford an insight into court life under the Bourbons. On a trip to Fontainebleau one travels through the town’s famous Forest; past the town of Barbizon where Millet, one of France’s many great artists, lived and worked; and the Palace built by Francis I, in which Napoleon resided for a time.
There is Chateau Thierry and its La Fontaine Museum; the American Memorial; Belleau-Wood, famous as an American World War I battleground ; and Compiegne where the Armistice was signed after the first World War. A few miles from Compiegne at Pierrefonds can be seen one of the most impressive and best preserved feudal castles of the House of Orleans.
Paris and its environs have charmed travelers ever since the city’s discovery in the days of the conquering Caesar. Al-
THE LOUVRE. The Palace of the Louvre is generally credited with having the largest collection of paintings in the world. It was opened as an art museum in 1793, but was built much earlier and was used by the kings of France as a storage place for works of art. This view, garden and, left, the Arc de Triomphe du Carrousel.