October, 1949
4
greatest Moslem powers in the world second only tO' Great Britain.
Few countries in the world excel France in educational facilities. A Minister of Education assisted by numerous educational bureaus and inspectors-general direct both public and private schools. Schools are free and attendance is compulsory between the ages of six and thirteen. Lycees or state colleges correspond to the high schools of the United States but boys and girls attend separate classes. In addition, private schools and communal colleges are maintained, the latter being supported by the various communes.
Girls wishing higher education usually attend convent schools but boys attend secular schools from which they must have certificates before they can qualify for professional or government positions. Beyond high school a number of special schools, private tutors and universities offer higher education. The finest university, that at Paris, has an average student body of 25,000 which includes men and women from all over the world. One of the most interesting aspects of its campus life is the many dormitories each devoted to the students of a particular country. They stand side by side and send forth their residents to learn together so that they may better understand each other.
Regardless of the length of any article about France there is never space enough to say everything that should be said or to describe all the wonders of that gracious nation. The same situation applies to any vacation spent in France—there never is time to see everything one wants to see or to do everything one wants to accomplish. As an air traveler you will be exceptionally fortunate in that travel-time has been cut down to a matter of hours making it possible for you to spend every available moment actually in France. You will still want to come back again and again, but then isn’t the desire to return the greatest compliment any visitor can pay to a host?
EXCURSION FARES
(Continued from page 1)
upon by educational people as an important means of achieving a world viewpoint and world understanding, and interest in student exchanges has grown since World War II, and the establishment of the United Nations and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
Many scholarships are available for study abroad, and for study in the United States by students from abroad, and Pan American World Airways pioneered among air lines in this respect by setting up the Pan American World Airways Travel Fellowships some ten years ago. The PAA fellowships provide round trip passage by Flying Clipper at no cost to the student for travel between the United States and Latin American countries. Awardees are selected by the Institute of International Education which also administers a long list of other fellowships and scholarships for study in other countries, and for study in the United States by foreign students.
PAA also has provided transportation for high school age students coming to the United States for the Herald Tribune
Pan Amerícan
World Airways Teacher	i i
BRITTANY. The province of Brittany in the northwestern corner of France has a charm all its own. From the curtained windows of its ancient harbor towns the small ships of the fleets which do a huge business fishing in the Atlantic and Mediterranean are familiar sights. Britons cling to the customs and beliefs of their forefathers retaining their Celtic language and their picturesque, multi-colored 16th century costumes which are worn on Sundays and at festivals and fairs.
Forum for High Schools.
However, scholarship plans can accommodate only a limited number of students.
The discount rates which now have been adopted under a resolution of the International Air Transport Association make available a passage rate which should enable many additional students to have the advantage of study in a country other than their own. Inquiries may be made at any PAA sales office.
OYER THE WORLD
(Continued from page 2) trip between Seattle and Nome it is $255 (normally $288).
The Alaska excursion fares are available until March 15, travel to be completed by April 15. A ticket is good for a 60-day period.
In response to a wide demand for autumn excursions between the United States and Latin America, Pan American World Airways excursion fares in effect during the summer for points in Latin America have been extended through November, for tickets purchased prior to November 1. These fares afford savings of 30 percent.
9 de Julio
The illustration on page 3, with Enrique Portes’ story on Argentina, is a view of Avenida 9 de Julio. Did you know that this date, to a citizen of Argentina, has a corresponding significance to that of July 4 for a citizen of the United States?
We asked Mr. Portes for the facts in this matter, and he responded as follows:
“On July 9, 1816, the Congress which had met in the city of Tucumán, with representatives from Buenos Aires, San Juan, Córdoba, Mendoza, Tucumán, Salta, Charcas, Santiago del Estero, Jujuy, La Rioja, Chichas and Mizque, proclaimed the fact that the United Provinces were a nation, free and independent from the kings of Spain and from all other foreign dominations.
“So, July 9, the Fourth of July of Argentina, is the day the Congress of Tucumán proclaimed the fact that the United Provinces were a nation.”
Mr. Portes advises also that in addition to Avenida 9 de Julio in Buenos Aires, there is a town of 9 de Julio in the interior.
G.G.