Pan Amer r¿an
World Airwave Teacher	October, 1949
_______
Pan American	;
^ World Airways Tracked v—'
Published, as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1949, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
MAIL BAG...
Dear Director:
For some time now, a few years, it has been a pleasure and profit to receive your “Pan American World Airways Teacher.” But no copy has been received since the May June, 1949, Vol. V No. 5 issue. Please do not remove my name from your mailing list.
Also I would like to request that you send me a list of your booklets on the countries of the world, as well as the list of the free teaching materials which may be had for the asking. I have some of the pamphlets in our vertical file, and they are invaluable.
Sincerely,
St. Walburga’s Academy Library New York
“World Airwaiys Teacher” is not published during the summer vacation. The present issue is the first since May-June, Vol. V, No. 5.
The Librarian at St. Walburga will remain on the list, as will any others who may have zvondered why they have not received World Airzvays Teacher since June. Also, we’d like to add that we like the second paragraph, requesting that we send a list of teaching materials, for that is exactly the manner in which we hope to take care of all distribution in the future. See the explanation in column 2 on this page.
Dear Sir:
The students and I enjoy the World Airways Teacher very much. The articles are printed in an interesting manner, yet contain vital up-to-date facts.
Sincerely yours,
Viola Scala Maywood, Illinois
Gentlemen:
I should like to have you know how much I enjoyed my trip to Honolulu this last summer on Pan American. It was perfect going and coming. Nothing like flying! Everything was done to make everyone happy. I had a delightful 8 weeks in the Islands, at the University Summer School, and touring and visiting. I hope to fly some more!
If your department has material to vitalize Social Studies or for a World Friendship Club, I should be glad to be on your mailing list.
Yours,
Vera M. Bolton Inglewood, Calif.
Thanks For Your Letters!
Elsewhere on this page is a request that teachers go along with us in a new system of distribution of PAA educational materials. The “new system” is simplicity itself. We simply ask that you get our printed list of materials and order blank and use it in making your request. We can handle them in that form so much more quickly and expeditiously, that everybody ought to gain an advantage.
We hope, though, that the system will not discourage good letters like the one that arrived the other day from Mrs. Kathleen Coleman of Pollock Pines School, El Dorado, Calif.
Mrs. Coleman explained that “during our language arts class last Thursday, we talked about our many friends and the many nice things they do for us. Our written assignment was to write a thank you note to some one of their own choosing to express our gratefulness for their thoughtfulness.
“The letters were so sincere that I am -going to have the children address envelopes today, and we’ll actually send them to- you.”
The next mail brought a letter from Norma Rohrer of the Sixth Grade Busy Bees.
“Dear Airline People,” said Miss Norma.
REQUESTS FOR MATERIALS
The Educational Service of Pan American World Airways for five years, now, has offered to- teachers free instructional material on aviation education and on the countries served by PAA.
The response has been most gratifying. In fact, the volume of requests has grown to such an extent that we now have to ask teachers to assist us in setting up a simplified method of distribution.
If you believe you can make use of Pan American educational materials send a penny post card to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza, Long Island City, N.Y. and ask for “List of Materials”. This form describes the various materials available, enabling you to determine which you can use. Beside each title is a square for your check mark. A space is provided for your name and address. Check the items desired, insert name and address and send us the form.
Use of the form will greatly expedite the filling of your request, and help us to' give better service to more teachers.
“We took our first airplane ride yesterday. We went to Ecuador. It was fun. We hope you can send us some pictures of where your airplanes really go-, in South America. . . . Have you anything else we can use? We all like history and geography now. . . . ‘Let’s be Friends’.”
Well, we certainly want to be friends, Norma.
Our materials are prepared for teachers, for use in the class room, and are distributed to teachers only. But we like to hear from students whose teachers have used the materials.
Model Aircraft First Flight Covers
On page 12 of this issue is an account of the first model aircraft air mail, together with pictures of the tiny airplanes which flew the first flight covers.
Here is a reproduction of the special cachet which commemorated the first model aircraft air mail:
national ama AmpUNE Meet
In keeping with the spirit of the project itself, the first flight cover itself was in miniature. Its overall size was three inches by four inches, or approximately twice the size of the illustration.
A bundle of sixty covers made a package an inch thick, approximating the size and shape of the dummy which entrants in the PAA Load Event were required to carry during their official flights (the mail flights were extra, not a part of the competition). Bargains in Air Fares
In addition to the new excursion rate for students traveling between their homes and their schools and colleges described on page one, there are other opportunities to save money on air travel by taking advantage of excursion rates available to everybody.
Winter excursion rates to Alaska for travel via the Flying Clippers offer savings of as much as 25 per cent. The round trip from Seattle to Juneau and return is $100.80 (normally $135). Between Seattle and Fairbanks the excursion round trip rate is $169.20 (normally $234). For the round (Continued on page 11)