Pan American
s	World A/Rmrs Teacher	October, 1949
CARCASSONE. Reminders of an ancient time are great castles still standing in France, like this one at Carcassone. Looking at the thick walls and turrets it is not difficult to imagine a besieging army hurling arrows from long bows and trundling up battering rams, and a defending army dropping boulders and boiling oil on the invaders.
FRANCE IN THE AIR AGE
(Continued from page 1)
is now under intensive cultivation. French farms are seldom more than fifteen acres in size and most of them are owned by the people who farm them. Cereals are the most important crops. Wheat covers 12% of the total area and next to Russia, France is the leading producer of that grain in Europe. Oats, rye, barley, mixed corn, potatoes, hemp, flax, beets and buckwheat are also raised in abundance.
In the northern and central parts of France, apples and chestnuts are important foods, and along the Mediterranean, grapes are the leading crop. The French are noted for their fine grape wines, and in good years fully half the world’s wine supply is produced in France. Other crops include oranges, figs, citrons, pears, plums, peaches and olives which are raised in the southern portions of the country. The mulberry tree is cultivated in the southeast and its leaves serve as food for the silkworms which are extensively raised as the basis of the country’s great silk industry.
Because of a lack of extensive pasture lands cattlg raising does not occupy a very important position but the nation’s dairy industry is famous for its Camembert, Gruyere, Brie and Roquefort cheeses which are exported all over the world. Unusually fine wool is obtained from the many sheep ranches of the country. In the north the raising of horses, mules and asses forms an important part of the nation’s income. Horses are not only in great demand by the army, but also are an important source of food.
Through the formation of cooperative marketing associations, the efforts of the railroads, and the use of modern agricultural machinery and modern soil fertilizers, vegetable growers have achieved remarkable success. Not only is the domestic market supplied but large exports of fresh products
are made to the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Belgium while the rest of the world is familiar with canned French peas and beans.
Major Industrial Activities
Although not as important as agriculture, manufacturing plays a major role in French economic life. Textiles are the greatest industry which includes the manufacture of cotton, wool, worsted, flax, hemp and jute products. Although the French cotton industry uses some Egyptian, Indian and colonial cotton, more than three-fourths of its needs are met by the United States.
The silk industry constitutes one of the most important factors in French foreign trade. In addition to supplying the national market France exports more than a billion francs worth of silk materials, and exports of silk lingerie and clothes account for another billion francs. The best customer for silk products is England followed by the United States, Belgium, Argentina and Switzerland. In proportion to its population however, Belgium buys more silk products than any other country. Artificial silk, rayon and ribbons also are important products of the textile industry.
The next most important manufacturing activities in France are in the iron and steel making industry, machine and motor production, and the electric and chemical industries. The production of ceramics is also considerable and the entire world is familiar with the porcelain products made in Limoges. Another industry is devoted to the production of what may be called “articles de Paris” which are sought the world over because of their quality or style. Such items as hats, feathers, trimmings, perfumes and jewelry fall into this latter category.
Due to its geographical location France occupies an 'important position in world
commerce. It is bounded on the north and north west by the North Sea and the English Channel; on the west by the Atlantic Ocean; on the south by Spain and the Mediterranean Sea; on the east by Italy, Switzerland and Germany; and on the northeast by Germany, Luxemburg and Belgium. Its harbors secure a large share in seaborne trade especially in that most important of all inland seas, the Mediterranean.
France is to a high degree an independent physical unit. Besides the open seas lying to the northwest, west and southeast its eastern border is girdled by ranges of the Alps; the Jura, the Vosges, the Rhenish Highlands and the Ardennes separating the country from the rest of central Europe, while the Spanish frontier is defined by the Pyrenees. However, the ranges on the east are broken by gaps and passes and railroads communicate with every country in central and eastern Europe. In addition, all railway traffic to Spain and Portugal must pass through France.
The nation’s four great river systems— the Rhone, the Garonne, the Loire and the Seine—together with their tributaries are connected by extensive systems of canals which provide waterways across France to Belgium and Germany as well as acting as important domestic arteries of commerce.
Inside France excellent plane service makes it possible for the traveler to fly with speed and safety from one principal city to another. Air France, the French National Airline, maintains a broad schedule which links the principal cities of France and flies beyond to Corsica, Algeria, Tunisia, Morocco, Madagascar and other countries of the world. Pan American World Airways’ Flying Clippers make the flight across the “Rue de la Paix of the Atlantic” via Boston;. Santa Maria in the Azores; Lisbon, Portu-