12
Pan Amer rca v
WoRio Airways Teacher
October, 1949
PAY LOAD IS CARRIED ON MODEL AIRCRAFT
The first model airplane air mail was flown this summer at the National A.M.A. Model Airplane Meet at the U.S. Naval Air Station, Olathe, Kansas.
“First flight covers” with a special cachet were prepared, and Second Assistant Postmaster General Paul Aiken was on hand to deliver the first packet of letters to Modeler Dennis Davis of San Diego, who loaded them into his gas-powered model and sent them aloft for 4 minutes and 10 seconds.
Other contestants flew similar packets until a total of 369 covers had traveled by model aircraft, and the envelopes then were deposited in the post office at Olathe to be dispatched by air mail to' government officials and first flight cover collectors.
The mail flight was a feature of the PAA Load Event, a special contest for model builders and flyers introduced by Pan American World Airways at the Nationals in 1948 and repeated on July 31 of this year. In this event, the models are required to carry pay load. The load is miniature— like the models. For Class A models which are powered with engines of two-tenths cubic inch piston displacement or less, the pay load required is eight ounces. In Class B, with engines of .201 to .300 cubic inches displacement 16 ounces must be carried. The pay load is in the form of a dummy “occupant”—a block of wood or other material 3" x 3" x 1" and with a head 1" x 1" x 1". One such occupant, weighing 8 ounces, is required for Class A, and two for Class B.
The concept of pay load was introduced into model flying to give an added touch of realism. A full scale airplane is useful only to the extent that it carries load, whether passengers, mail and cargo in the case of commercial aircraft, or personnel and weapons in the case of military aircraft. Requir-
FIRST MODEL MAIL. Second Assistant Postmaster General Paul Aiken (left) officiated and Dennis Davis of San Diego made the first air mail flight by a model aircraft at the Nationals, Model Airplane Meet at Olathe, Kansas.
ing the model builder to accommodate pay load makes it necessary for him to solve the same problems that face the full scale designer in providing power, lifting ability and space within the aircraft.
Model aircraft come in a variety of categories, including gliders, rubber band powered craft, models powered with carbon dioxide cartridges and models powered with internal combustion aircraft.
For pay load flying, the gas-powered category was selected, and within this category, the R.O.G. classification—the models must rise off ground under their own power.
The event has rapidly become one of the most popular features of model flying. In addition to the pay load event at the Nationals, there were similar events this summer and fall at fifteen other contests throughout the United States.
MASS MAIL FLIGHT. Following the dispatch of the first bundle of covers by the Second Assistant Postmaster General (See picture at top of page) the remaining covers in the total of 369 which comprises the first model air mail were flown by other contestants. All of the flights went off promptly, and no one lost a model carrying mail.