October, 1949________¡fOfííO AfffmVX TPACHER________
AN AIR VIEW OF ARGENTINA TODAY
by Enrique Portes
BUENOS AIRES. Avenida 9 de Julio (In Latin America streets regularly are named for dates) is one of the widest avenues in the world. At left center is the immense obelisk which adorns the Plaza Republica.
The first impression of Argentina is unforgettable. It does not matter whether you arrive on a Pan American Clipper direct from U.S.A., in a day’s flight, or via Chile by Panagra, crossing the Andes at nineteen thousand feet above sea level. If you follow the Atlantic route, your plane lands at Buenos Aires’ largest airport. If you cross the Andes from Chile, your airship lands its wheels down in Córdoba, in the heart of the Republic. The choice of route is yours ... the thrill of arriving, wonderful.
One of the first things you notice is the reversal of season, a contrast which the North American visitor finds interesting if not a bit strange.
Christmas, for instance, is in mid-summer. Easter at the beginning of a cold, rainy autumn. The Fourth of July falls in midwinter. The cold mornings of August find lawns and window-panes whitened with frost. September brings in the spring with orange blossoms. October’s warm breezes are laden with the heavy fragrance of jasmins.
Early November finds Argentine sunshine scintillating on mile after mile of flowering flax which in a few weeks will produce more than half the world’s supply of linseed oil. In hot December, city dwellers pack up their belongings and flock to the seashore in search of fresher air. There you are, you can pick your season and fly to the Argentine Republic.
Another impression you receive on your arrival is that Argentines, both men and women, seem to be almost without exception handsome and well groomed. Also they seem to be taller and bigger than most South Americans. Everybody is well dressed. You’ll notice that fashions usually follow the European style rather than the American. Jewelry is very much in evidence everywhere. This may be due to the fact that Buenos Aires is today the largest jewelry center in the world. There are two and three jewelry stores in each block.
Though Argentines have been accused of lacking a sense of humor, of never laughing at themselves as Americans do, the fact remains that their witticism, jokes and anecdotes are well known in practically every Spanish speaking country.
Don’t let any one tell you that Argentines are sad and unfriendly. You may be told that they dance the tango with a set face and an air of grim determination. This does not mean, however, that they are unhappy. The tango lyrics concern themselves with misfortune, in love, which gives the song writer his opportunity to use the invariable rhyming of the unrequited pasión with the broken corazón. But the fact remains that frequently the composer writes the lyrics with his tongue in his cheek. Tango writing is a business and does not necessarily express an unhappy attitude of a people. A healthy, well-fed and educated people cannot be unhappy.
You will soon notice that Argentines are not lazy builders. Fortunately, that mistaken idea of Latin American procrastination is rapidly fading away. Argentines love to watch football games, so they have built
modern stadiums to accommodate these sports. They like to live in a dazzling place, so they have made a jewel of a city, sparkling with parks and exotic trees.
Their subways are not mere means of transportation. The huge murals painted on tile on the walls of the stations, make a subway ride under the city a pictorial journey through the nation’s history.
Argentines, you will soon discover are courteous and generous as soon as they know you well; the “mañana” so often applied to Latin Americans, does not describe modern Argentines. Argentines might point out, quoting from Carlos Davila’s “We of the Americas”, that Americans may also procrastinate. Only with Americans it is “next week” instead of “mañana” or it is after the “holidays”, and there are always many holidays.
Many thrilling moments are in store for you in Argentina, plus the realization that Argentina is not just any country but a nation with all the potentialities for leadership in many fields of endeavor.
A Meaningful Name
The name Argentina has a romantic history. It came into being associated with legends of wealth, adventure and poetry. The word Argentina means silvery or silver. The chroniclers of the Church and the Audiencia used the name of argentinas to mean the inhabitants, institutions and city of the River Plate. These same chroniclers called the Rio de la Plata, Fluvius Argen-tinus.
In the year 1570, one Martin del Barco Centenera went out to South America and spent twenty-five years in Peru, Upper Peru (now Bolivia), Paraguay and the River Plate country. He became well
acquainted with the legend of the silver region and wrote an epic poem of the conquest of the region, obviously inspired by Ercilla’s famous poem of the Chilean conquest, “La Araucana,” the first part of which had been published in 1569.
Barco Centenera transferred to the Rio de la Plata the use of the words argentirms, argentino, Argentina that had been applied to the entire River Plate region. After his return to Spain, Centenera’s poem was published under title “Argentina y la conquista del Rio de la Plata.” By the middle of the XVII century, Argentinas, Argentino and Argentina were the accepted Latin names for the country and the people. The name was officially adopted as the name of the country in 1860.
With an area of 1,080,000 square miles, Argentina is more than one third the size of the United States (38 per cent) and occupies the entire southern half of the South American continent, except for the narrow strip west of the Andes that comprises Chile, and the small Republic of Uruguay on the east.
With a population of 16,100,000 (1947 census) the Argentine territory is as large as Europe, excluding Russia. Nature has given her the great grassy campo, the limitless grazing pampas, wide navigable rivers, regions covered with every kind of growth.
In the Andes which rim her western boundary, the Aconcagua rises some 23,000 feet. The climate in the center and most thickly settled part is temperate, with slight variations. The northern tip of the Republic is within the tropics and therefore hot, and the southern extremity is very cold.
About one-fourth of the country’s total area is pampas—the boundless, fertile plains, virtually without stone or gravel—