FRANCE IN THE AIR AGE
by Lou Phillips
CLIPPER AMERICA. Thousands of Parisians visited Orly Airport, Paris’ international air terminal, to inspect Pan American World Airways’ giant double-decked Flying Clipper. One of the planes was made available for public inspection prior to going into service across the Atlantic in daily flights to London.
France has within its borders some place to suit every mood and some thing to please every taste and pocketbook.
With a coastline skirting four seas from Flanders to the Riviera, France possesses every kind of sea climate. There are 350 seaside resorts and the pleasures of bathing extend over every season: in summer on the coasts of the North Sea, the Channel and the Atlantic; in spring, summer and autumn on the Basque coast; and on the Riviera all the year round. Quiet resorts are found beside the most luxurious ones and the sea provides an infinite variety of scenery from the tideless Mediterranean to the surf pounded shores of the Atlantic.
Smooth and rugged mountains tower above France’s coasts and plains. The Alps, the Pyrenees, the Ardennes, the Vosges, the Jura, the Massif Central and the Cevennes are extraordinarily breathtaking and are dotted with splendid resorts which extend to the visitor every kind of exhilarating summer and winter sport. In the summer there is mountain' climbing or wooded retreats for short walks, and in the winter there are steep or gentle slopes for skiing.
There are great cities, large towns and small villages where climate and history subtly combine to give each place its definite local atmosphere. Marseilles, a great seaport and gateway to the east is unlike Lyons, the center of the silk industry, an inland town where two rivers run together. Large industrial cities such as Tourcoing, Roubaix or Saint-Étienne differ from such ancient and noble seats, of old local parliaments as Aix, Montpellier or Dijon. Rouen, on the other hand, is truly a museum town and has both aspects.
Apart from these extremes are countless quiet, dreamy little villages scattered over
EXCURSION FARES
Excursion fares amounting in some cases to fifty percent reductions now are available for students traveling between home and school on many international air routes. These special rates, which are expected to do much to encourage student exchanges, were adopted by Pan American World Airways as of October 17. They apply to both trans-Atlantic and trans-Pacific travel.
For the U.S. student traveling to Europe or Africa, or to Asia, Australia, or New Zealand, the discount allowed is 35 percent from the sum of the two one way fares. The same rate is available for students coming from those areas to the United States to attend school or college.
For travel between two points in Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia or New Zealand, a fifty per cent discount is allowed. The ar-
the country which have a sedate and old fashioned life of their own, far from general bustle and agitation. The softness of their light and their shadowy malls are one of the most charming aspects of France.
Charm and France are synonymous. It
SET FOR STUDENTS
rangement is not effective for travel between the United States and Latin America, however, it does hold good for travel between Latin America and the other areas mentioned above.
It is the first such rate ever adopted for international air travel to and from the United States, although a similar plan previously has been effective between certain other areas of the world.
To be eligible for the special rate, the traveler must be a school or college student between the ages of 12 and 21, and supply a certificate from educational authorities regarding age, status and purpose of trip. It is available only in connection with round trip transportation purchased in advance.
Student exchanges long have been looked (Continued on page 11)
is the nation’s greatest invisible export. It permeates the very air and is the most important part of the triangular French temperament. The other two characteristics which combine to form a type that can be called typically French is the stolid, industrial thrift of the Teutons and the liveliness and quick temper of the Latins.
There are almost forty-two million French people occupying 212,659 square miles of land on the European Continent. This is approximately 196 persons per square mile which when compared to the 490 persons living on each square mile of land in the British Isles or to the 354 persons per square mile in Italy illustrates the relatively favorable position occupied by France with respect to adequate living space. Moreover, the nation possesses the basic elements of stability and prosperity. Although coal must be imported, half the iron of Europe lies within French borders and the French population is fed on homeland territory.
By far the dominant occupation of France is agriculture, for fully nine-tenths of the soil is productive. About half the country (Continued on page 8)