Pan Ahíerrca\
October, 1949	WÓ/UO AffíMVS TEACHER7
GAUCHOS. The gauchos, who are the cowboys of Argentina, resemble their counterparts in the United States in many respects. Their dress, however, is much different as may be seen in the picture, and their favorite beverage is mate, which is a herb steeped in hot water and is sometimes called South American tea. The seated gaucho has a gourd of mate in his hand. He sips it through a metal cylinder about the size and shape of a soda straw.
Don Ramiro, considered one of the finest historical novels ever written in Spanish, and Ricardo Güiraldes’ (1826-1927) Don Segundo Sombra regarded as the most artistic novel on a gaucho theme.
It is interesting to note that the traditional background in the literature of Argentina —as in all Spanish American masterpieces —is what has made some books great. Let us take Sarmiento. He was a leader of the revolt against Rosas and his gaucho adventurers. The enduring value of Sarmiento’s writings does not rest upon his program for the educational, social and economic development of his country. His fame as a writer is secure by his description of the life of the gaucho, Facundo.
Hernández’ fame rests on the picture he gave us of the gaucho Martin Fierro. Ricardo Güiraldes, author of Don Segundo Sombra, belonged to the wealthy aristocracy of Argentina. Educated abroad, he was a fine writer, aware of all the devices of contemporary literary technique and employing them with rare skill. Yet the theme of his novel is the traditional background, the pampas, the language and the hero. The book is dedicated to “The gaucho I bear within me.” These books, explains Harriet de Onis in her magnificent study, deal with the traditional figure of the gaucho. Not only are they the cornerstone of Argentine literature. They are milestones in the literature of America, North and South.
In the field of art and music Argentina can only be compared to Mexico and Chile. Buenos Aires has become a repository of treasures from other parts of the globe. The numerous art schools and museums give Argentine artists facilities to perfect themselves and succeed. Just as in literature, Argentine art has kept its national character, and there has been a growing interest in portraying distinctively Argentine subjects.
The best works of modern painters and sculptors may be seen in the special galleries of modern art at the National Museum of Fine Arts, the Municipal Museum of Buenos Aires, and at the Museum of Fine Arts of the Province of Buenos Aires at La Plata. Among the modern painters are the Dominican Fray Guillermo Butler, who paints landscapes and convent interiors ; Benito Quinquela Martin, who has devoted his life almost exclusively to portraying the port of La Boca del Riachuelo in Buenos Aires and the life of the dockworkers, fishermen and sailors ; and Cesáreo Bernaldo de Quirós, who has done beautiful paintings of gaucho life. Molina Campos is the most financially successful artist in the country. Among the sculptors are Pablo Curatella Manes and Máximo C. Maldonado.
Music in present-day Argentina is a career. It is encouraged through the National Bureau of Fine Arts and the National Conservatory of Music and Declamation. Many provinces support local conservatories of music, and the city of Buenos Aires subsidizes the Teatro Colón, a fine opera house and the focal point for concerts and recitals of leading artists and musical organizations from abroad. The outstanding figure in Argentine music today is the composer-conductor Juan José Castro (b. 1895). His works include the ballet Mekhano, the Sinfonía Argentina, Sinfonía
la Chellah, Sinfonía Bíblica and other works.
Modern music trends are largely influenced by the Grupo Renovación. In this group are Luis Gianneo (b. 1897) director of the Tucumán symphony orchestra and conservatory, who finds inspiration in Argentine folklore; José María Castro (b. 1892) composer and cellist ; Honorio Sic-cardi (b.1897), and Jacobo Ficher (b. 1896), winner of the Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge chamber music prize. Alberto Ginastera (b. 1916) is one of the youngest composers. His works have attracted attention, especially his ballet Panambi which was performed at the Colón in 1940. Other contemporary composers are Charles Suf-fern (b. 1905) ; Antonio de Raco, Isabel Arets-Thiele, Juan A. García Estrada and Pascual Grisolia The most controversial figure in Argentine music is Juan Carlos Paz (b.1897), a radical atonalist and Schon-berg’s follower who conceives much of his music in the twelve tone scale system. Paz, who founded the Grupo Renovación, leads now a new group called La Nueva Música. Paz’ works have been performed at festivals in many places.
The Time is Now
Argentina has many attractions to offer in sports, music, resorts and modern conveniences. If you want to see a football (soccer) game, many stadiums—the largest of which at River Plate holds 90,000 spectators—will give you this opportunity. The race tracks of Palermo and San Isidro are magnificent. For thrills you have polo.
Coming to the forefront is skiing. At Manuel Huapi, about 1050 miles by rail or
auto from Buenos Aires but a few hours away by airplane, you may stay at the hotel “Llao-Llao” which caters to the needs of the most exacting traveler. The hotel offers the most spectacular view of the mountains peak. You may ski over the trails or snow fields of nearby Cerro Catedral; it does not matter you are a novice or an expert.
As to resorts, Mar del Plata sums up everything. Mar del Plata is the Atlantic City of Argentina, offering accommodation to thousands. During the summer months of December and January you have to make reservations in advance. Though 300 miles from Buenos Aires, it draws commuters from the capital and, of course, vacationists or “season guests” from all Argentina and neighboring countries. Miles of splendid beaches run along the foot of picturesque craggy rock cliffs. A wide ocean drive follows the beach line, and behind it you will find avenues lined with shops, great hotels and summer homes. Smaller hotels and cottages accommodate over 300,000 visitors a year. Mar del Plata has an immense gambling casino operated by the government for charitable institutions. The casino has some 80 roulette tables and many other games of chance. The stakes can be very high or very low; any one can indulge.
A trip to Argentina is a relatively easy matter today. Fast planes make it possible in a day or so. Get ready to fly over the blue Caribbean, over the green forests of the Amazon or above the white peaks of the Andes. At the end of the journey your eyes will see a land of endless plains, of modern cities, of healthy and prosperous people. They will welcome you .. the time is now.