12 India
Pan AMCRictN
World Airways Teacher
From Silkzvorm to Parachute, 10 min., sound, black and white.
This film shows the silk industry in Kashmir, tracing the manufacture of silk from the time the silkworm leaves its cocoon until the parachutes are ready for the airmen. Shots of silk products, shawls and exquisite embroidery add to the interest of the film.
Handicrafts of South India, 10 min., sound, black and white.
In South India, the ancient Indian handicrafts flourish still, being handed down from father to son. Using primitive tools and simple material—pith, wax, brass, silver wire and sandalwood—the craftsmen of South India turn out exquisite works of art as a result of centuries of workmanship.
Vale of Kashmir, 10 min., sound, Technicolor.
For sheer beauty of color and scenic grandeur, this short travelogue takes us to Srinagar, in Kashmir. Souvenirs that delight the tourist’s eye are shown, such as papier mache work, lovely hand-carved chests, silverware and famous Kashmiri silks. We visit their schools, see their dances and customs, concluding with a flight over the higher Himalayan mountains and a brief landing in Tibet.
Indian Minorities, 10 min., sound, black and white.
Spanning the age-old traditions of tolerance and hospitality, “Indian Minorities” presents the India of today, a land of diverse races and creeds living as one. Jews, Christians, Parsees, Buddhists, Sikhs and Muslims have contributed in the realm of fine arts, music, education, architecture and industry. This short film stresses the way in which all communities live in perfect harmony.
Melody of Hindustan, 10 min., sound, black and white.
Being played by masters, India’s popular musical instruments pass in review. Their haunting and highly developed music flows from instruments of wood, of bamboo tubes, and even water-filled porcelain bowls.
Rajasthan I : laipur, 10 min., sound, black and white.
Splendidly photographed, this highly informative film recaptures the pageantry of bygone days against the background of Jaipur’s fairy tale towers, its slender pillars and graceful arches.
Santiniketan, 10 min., sound, black and white.
This film takes you around the various institutes and schools now constituting the University of Visva-Baharati, founded by Rabindranath Tagore. Education of the young in close contact with nature while answering the needs of the present, was the vision that inspired Tagore to establish this “Ashrama” known as Santiniketan.
Seven Pagodas (Mahabalipuram),	10
min., sound, black and white.
On the eastern coastline of India, 55 miles from Madras, lies the ancient Island of Beauty—Mahabalipuram, founded in the 7th century A. D. This film shows the elaborate architecture of one of the earliest excavations known as “Dharmraj Mandap”, and
then anpther known as “Mahishasur Man-dapa”. The most picturesque shrine of South India is the Shore Temple built in the early part of the 8th century A. D.
Filmstrips
India—The Land and its People, Society for Visual Education, 1345 So. Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111. 39 frames with captions, color.
Photographs show characteristic landscapes, architecture, industries, customs, activities and interests of the people. Points out differences in culture and compares customs, dress and crafts. For study of natural resources and effects on economy of the country.
Indus Basin, Stanley Bowmar Co., 12 Cleveland St., Valhalla, N. Y. 46 frames, black and white.
Produced by Common Ground, Ltd. Describes the complete Indus basin including Kashmir, North West Frontier, Punjab, Sind and Karachi.
Ramesh of India, Young America Films, 18 E. 41st St., N. Y. 40 frames, with captions, color.
A story based on the activities of the children in India. Part of a series “Children of the Orient”, intended to show the way of life of children in other lands.
Make Friends Through Books, Care, 20 Broad St., New York, N. Y. 47 frames, with captions and title frames. Art work illustrations by Valenti Angelo.
Depicts the life of two boys—one who lives in India and the other in the Philippine Islands. Shows how they live differently than American boys and the interests they have in common with children of all countries. Calls attention, in closing, to the C. A. R. E. program for sending books
overseas.
Pivot of Asia, N. Y. Times Office of Education Activities, 229 W. 43rd St., N. Y., 36 frames.
Traces the rise of the British Indian Empire. Covers the successful struggle for independence and the creation of the Republic of India and Pakistan. The conflict with Pakistan is presented and the social and economic problems. This serves as a background to India’s natural leadership in India.
Folk Music of India, long playing non-breakable micra-groove 33-1/3 rpm, No. P 409, Folkways Records and Service Corporation, 117 W. 46th St., New York. Recorded in India by All India Radio. Examples from the Punjab, Bengal, Rajastan and South India. Folk songs, snake charmer’s, love songs, etc; The record is accompanied by a guide which gives information about the history, language, geography and culture of India. It is excellent background resource material. Other records on this topic in this Library are:
Traditional and Classical Music In India, P 422, recorded in India. Outstanding performances of classical singing in ragas: Kamboji, Saarang, etc. Rich instrumental performances; exotic and enjoyable for listening*, useful for dancers.
Religious, Music of India, No. P 431, recorded in India under the direction of Alain Danielou for the National Council on Religion in Higher Education. Fine performances by accomplished musicians and singers of selections from the Ramayana, hymn to Shiva, Vedic chanting, Bhajanas etc. Instruments indude bamboo flutes and small cymbals. Introduction and notes by Alain Danielou contain explanatory material, texts of songs in Sanskrit translations and music transcriptions.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
Prom the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons”
INDIA
LOCATION . . . The Republic of India is comprised of 28 states, which include the former princely states. This vast sub-continent is separated from the rest of Asia by the great Himalayan Range.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This is colorful, strange country undergoing what amounts to a revolution in its politics and way of life. Its fabulous temples, magnificent mosques, exotic bazaars and shops, its world-famous Taj Mahal are in themselves reason enough to visit India. Delhi, the capital; Calcutta and Bombay, thriving industrial centers and major ports of India; Jaipur, the pink capital of Rajasthan; the holy city of Benares; the ancient rock-cut caves of Ajanta and Ellora, and the temples of South India are some of the major tourist attractions of this fascinating land. The Indian Government is eager to have the Western world know more about the country.
POPULATION . . . Estimated at 357,000,000, considerably more than twice that of the United States. The population is made up of many racial strains and constitutes one-seventh of the human race.
SIZE . . . 1,269,640 square miles, a little more than half of the area of the United States.
CAPITAL ... New Delhi, which, together with Delhi City, has a population of well over a million.
GOVERNMENT . . . Republic framework with a Parliament (Council of States and House of the People). The Cabinet consists of a Prime Minister and Council of Ministers.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, through-plane service from New York via London and Istanbul to Delhi, about 45 hours (elapsed time) : 3 hours longer to Calcutta. By ship, 25 to 45 days.