Pan Amer/cay
2 india	World Aramrs TmcHER
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO INDIA
We can fly to India by going eastward (upper map) or westward (lower map) and there is not too much difference in the distance. The westbound route is the longer— notably so if we are starting from the East Coast of the United States.
Columbus was aware of this geographical act of life regarding India when he undertook in the Fifteenth Century to find a westbound route to the Orient. Of course Columbus was interested in a route from Europe to the Far East and if he realized that the trip west from Europe to India would be a good many more miles in length than the east-bound trip, he also was trying to overcome other obstacles. The trade routes then existing were overland, across mountains and deserts, or else a long sea journey entirely around the continent of Africa. Columbus and other explorers thought there surely must be a better way.
Instead Columbus discovered America, and other explorers opened up the Western Hemisphere to colonization, and it remained for the airplane, five centuries later, to find a means of rapidly passing over mountains and deserts, continents and oceans, and establish easy trade routes in both directions.
Which route shall we choose for the imaginary trip in this study unit? Eastbound? Westbound ?
Let’s start from New York and go eastward, and then return to the United States across the Pacific. In that way we’ll circle the globe and become modern Magellans.
There are a number of things to do by way of preparation.
We’ll consult a representative of Pan American World Airways, first, or a travel agent, to look up schedules and prices. We find that we can leave New York any day of the week, that we will arrive in India the third day after leaving the United States
and that the fare will be $687.60 via tourist service, or $932 first class. For the journey entirely around the world the tourist fare will be about $1350, the first class fare J1790.
We’ll be told that we should take steps immediately to obtain a passport and tourist visa. For the former we go to the Passport Office of the U.S. State Department, for the visa we apply to an Indian consulate.
On health requirements, we’ll learn that certain inoculations are essential, and these are given in the PAA travel guide New Horizons, as follotws: “All persons are advised to be protected against yellow fever, smallpox and cholera and to carry valid certificates of vaccination and inoculation. Validity periods of certificates are: for smallpox, not less than 14 days nor more than 3 years; for cholera, not less than 7 days nor'more than 6 months; for yellow fever, not less than 15 days nor more than 4 years.”
We must prepare a wardrobe. It will be a little different than what we would have on hand for the United States/because India is warm during most of the year. Light summer fabrics such as seersucker, light cottons, dark or light linens, for day or night, are suitable during the summer. In winter, light tweed and flannel for Calcutta and heavy woolen clothing for Delhi are necessary. For the rainy season, which is mid-June to mid-October, a raincoat is a must. In Bombay, light clothing is suitable the year round.
Another very important part of our preparation is learning as much as we can about India before we start our journey. The articles and pictures in this study unit are a start in that direction. The bibliography and film list toward the end of the unit will lead to further information
Knowing as much as possible about a
country before we actually visit it makes the journey more enjoyable, helps to learn more, and makes us more effective “ambassadors of good will.”
With preparations completed, we have only to wait for the day of departure, and let’s travel aboard the new Super-7 Clipper, adapted from the luxury DC-7 by Pan American and Douglas Aircraft for overocean, non-stop tourist class service.
The Super-7 Clipper is the fastest, most comfortable of any all-tourist plane. Carrying a full load of 71 passengers and 6,300 pounds of baggage and cargo, the plane speeds along at 353 miles an hour, faster than any other passenger plane.
As these words were written, the Super-7 Clippers were being made ready to begin New York-Paris service in June, with four flights continuing to Rome. Daily service to London was scheduled for July, with additional flights to Frankfurt, Brussels, Prestiwick and Amsterdam scheduled for inauguration in August.
The Super-7 is powered by four of the newest Wright turbo-compound engines that give it 13,000 horsepower at take-off. Extra gasoline tanks built into the wings enable it to fly non-stop for 4,000 miles and still have reserve fuel to fly another 1,000 miles.
The new seats have molded backs and cushions 30 per cent thicker than in present tourist-class seats, with a down-filled pillow molded into the back of the cushion. A table, built into the back of the seat, can be dropped down for the use of the passenger sitting behind.
More efficient and faster food service for passengers is made possible by the Super-7’s enlarged galleys. The galleys are designed to store two full meals and an in-between snack for all passengers, and crew members.
ROME
YORK
BEIRUT
KARACHI