4 India
Pajv Amfrìguv
World Airways Teacher
COOCH-BEHAR — The elephant lets down to take his passenger aboard. This equipment is the type used for tiger hunting, and the group here shown was about to proceed on such an expedition.
League and its leader Mahomed Ali Jinnah, who demanded the creation of Pakistan, a separate Moslem State. The Second World War found India not unified behind England.
To obtain India’s full support, Sir Stafford Cripps on behalf of the British Cabinet offered in 1942 to organize an Indian interim government in which Great Britain would maintain control only over defense and foreign policy, to be followed by full dominion status after the war. The Congress Party demanded complete liberty for India at once, and when Britain refused, it initiated civil disobedience. Great Britain’s response was to outlaw the organization and jail its leaders. Jinnah, who offered to support the war, gained great strength. After the release of the Congress Party leaders in June 1945, Jinnah refused to modify his demands. In 1946 Great Britain offered liberty to India on any terms, but it warned that if no agreement was reached by the Congress Party and the Moslem League, Great Britain, on withdrawing in June 1948, would have to determine which group was entitled to power. Reluctantly the Congress Party agreed to Pakistan and in August 1947, the portions of India formerly under direct British control were divided into the Dominions of India and Pakistan. Nehru was made Prime Minister of India and Jinnah Governor General of Pakistan.
The flight of those Hindu and Moslem groups which suddenly found themselves in hostile territory was accompanied by horrible atrocities as communal passions exceeded all bounds. The rest is modern history.
Three Great Centers
There are many cities in India and some six thousand small towns of relative im-
portance. Three cities stand out, however, and they are Calcutta, New Delhi and Bombay.
Calcutta (over 2,000,000 population) is the capital of West Bengal State. It is a port on the Hooghly River, 86 miles from the Bay of Bengal. The city was founded in 1690 by the British East India Company, and within a century it assumed its present position as the chief port of East India. It has had an eventful history. In 1750 the Nabob of Bengal captured the city and killed most of the garrison by imprisoning it overnight in a small, stifling room, the notorious “black hole”. Clive retook Calcutta in 1757, and until 1911 it was the capital of India. It is today one of the major manufacturing centers of that country, produces textiles and finished jute. It contains the University of Calcutta, several colleges, and the Indian Museum with its great natural history collections. The Maidan, a large river-front park, surrounded by government buildings, is the most attractive section. A gigantic banyan tree with foliage extending some 300 feet in diameter can be found in another park.
New Delhi (about 100,000 population), in Delhi State, the capital of India today, is on the Jumna River as is the adjoining ancient city of Delhi (about 450,000 population). The old Delhi was the capital of the Moslem Slave dynasty. It is in the old Delhi where the visitor will find the historical monuments. There he will see the mosque of that dynasty surrounded by a colonnade of exquisitely carved Hindu columns, and in the courtyard, the Kutb Minal, a minaret 238 feet high. In 1658, Shah Jehan made it the Mogul capital, built its greatest monuments, including the Jama Masjid (great mosque) and the Emperor’s
Palace. An inscription in the Emperor’s private audience hall reads: “If there is a heaven on earth, it is this.” In 1911, Delhi with its historical associations was proclaimed the capital of India in place of Calcutta. The new New Delhi was not inaugurated as the capital of India until 1931. The new city, though basically Western in its architecture, has some Oriental details.
Bombay (about 1,500,000 population) is the capital of the Bombay State. Bombay, situated on the Island of Salsette just off the coast, is the only natural deep-water harbor of West India. It has a University and many colleges of importance. It is the leading cotton spinning and weaving center in all India. Just outside the city the visitor will find famous Buddhist caves.
A Thing of Beauty
Everywhere and in many ways as you travel about India you will be conscious of traces of the British influence—in the gardens, in the buildings, in the customs, in the historical markers noting the service of various British generals or statesmen. Many who later achieved great distinction or the highest possible military rank had their early training in India. You may, in your traveling, find a palace that is a copy of a small section of Windsor Castle, looking very out of place, a garden laid , out by the same gardener who laid out the gardens in Kew, near London, the habit of dining at eight or eight-thirty, of dressing for dinner, the popularity of certain English sports, the use of English as the official language—such things as these will remind you that the British once conquered and occupied India. There is something, however, that is unique which belongs to India alone—the Taj Mahal in Agra.
The Taj Mahal in Agra is the greatest example of the late, highly ornamented style of Indian-Moslem-architecture. Shah Jehan, who came to power about the time Louis XIV was king of France and the Massachusetts Bay Company was being established in America built this monument as a tomb for his lovely Persian wife, Mumtaz Mahal, so that her name might be known forever. The Taj Mahal, within a walled garden, is adorned with fountains and marble pavements. The building is reflected in an oblong pool, and dark cypresses surround it on three sides. It rises from a platform (315 ft. square) bearing a minaret at each corner. The white marble exterior is inlaid with semiprecious stones arranged in Arabic inscriptions, floral designs, and -arabesques, and the salient features of the interior are accented with agate, jasper, and colored marbles. The roofing dome, on the inside, is 80 feet high and 50 feet in diameter; outside, it forms a bulb which tapers to a spire topped by a crescent. The tomb chamber, with its two sarcophagi, is an octagonal room in the center of the edifice (the royal couple, however, are buried in a vault beneath the floor). The chamber is softly illuminated by the light which passes through double screens of intricately carved marble set high in the walls.
At twilight, as you walk into the walled garden and look down the long series of pools in which the Taj and the dark cy-