Pan Amfrìcan
World Alrways Teacher
India 5
JAIPUR — This unusual building has the Hindu name of Hawa Mahal, which means, Palace of the Winds.
presses are reflected, you hold your breath— there is so much beauty. The white marble walls seem to take on a mauve tinge with the coming night. With its minarets rising at each corner, its dome and tapering spire, it creates a sense of airy, almost floating lightness, of joy forever. The white marble of the Taj symbolizes the purity of real love, and somehow love and beauty seem close together in this creation.
A Vital Word — Progress
As part of a Five Year Plan, India has drawn up a program to make education free and compulsory for all children between six and fourteen years old. This means she will need about two million teachers and thousands of new schools; yet despite the great expenditure this entails at a time when there are so many other urgent demands on the budget, the present aim is to reach this goal by 1965. India is increasing also the number of her high schools and universities and improving their standards. At present India has twenty-eight universities, over four hundred colleges, seventy-four women’s colleges and forty teachers’ colleges. To help fill the great need for technicians, agricultural experts and scientists of all kinds, she is enlarging her present professional and technological institutes (of which there are now about one hundred) and building new ones. India is sending to the United States many educators to study the establishment of agricultural schools in connection with their universities and to explore the American educational system in general.
In addition, India is trying to give the whole population a complete basic education through its provincial social service program. The aim of this program is not only to teach all adults to read and write, but also to give them instruction in personal and
public health, and citizenship, and to give them the practical knowledge that will enable them to better their economic condition. This last, aside from training in improved farm practices, involves a revival of the old arts and handicrafts—such as spinning, weaving, brick-making and the like. To stimulate interest, the government has recently begun using educational caravans,
which travel from village to village, putting on plays and exhibits of various kinds, showing educational movies and distributing simple instructions which make it possible for the villagers themselves to carry out in practice what they have seen. The United States through its Point Four program and UNESCO is working with the Indian government to forward its educational program.
There are many organizations working with the Indian government in an effort to help it realize its goal. There is, for example the Colombo Plan, a program for cooperative economic development and mutual aid drawn up by the Commonwealth governments with the aim of raising the level of living throughout South and Southeast Asia. There is our U.S. Mutual Security Agency (MSA), which works with friendly governments anywhere who need economic, technical and military assistance. Our Point Four program for technical assistance to underdeveloped areas comes under this. Then there is the Ford Foundation whose funds in foreign countries are devoted primarily to creating conditions that increase the possibility of world peace. In India it has established a number of demonstration centers and training schools for the people who are to do agricultural, health and educational work among the villagers. The Rockefeller Foundation is doing fine work in medical research and public health.
Thanks to the energy and foresight of her leaders India is bound to make great advances in the modern world. Great teachers like Tagore and Gandhi, statesmen like Nehru and his sister, Madam Vijaya Lak-shmi Pandit and countless other Indians have placed that great country in a unique position in the world.
COOCH-BEHAR—A mahout, who is the elephant’s keeper and driver, is shown with a child, just prior to a tiger hunt. (The child did not go along on the hunt.)