Pan Au £R r can
6 India ____________World Airways Teacher_____
INDIA—ECONOMY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Agriculture is the mainstay of nearly two-thirds of India’s population and the primary source of national wealth. Out of a total area of 811 million acres about 424 million are cultivable. Of the arable area, 63% is crop yielding, 14% fallow and 23% waste. India’s irrigated area of 49 million acres is the largest in the world. On the average, the unit of cultivation is less than five acres.
Food crops occupy more than four-fifths of the cultivable land. Both with respect "to area and production, rice is the most important among the cereals. In eastern and southern India it is the staple article of diet. However India does not grow enough rice to go around. Next in order of importance is wheat, which is a staple food in most parts of northern India. Millet is grown in most of the States. Other crops include maize, barley and pulses.
Commercial crops cover about one-fifth of the area under cultivation and form the bulk of the country’s exports. Over 4^ million acres are devoted to the cultivation of sugar cane, the largest area under that crop anywhere in the world. India is an important producer of oil-seeds and vegetable oils. Groundnut is the most important oil-seed with rape, mustard and sesamum also produced. More than half of the tea grown in the world comes from India. One-fourth of the production is consumed internally with the rest exported. Among other cash crops are cotton and jute, tobacco and pepper. India is the third largest grower of tobacco in the world.
Since 1930 the production of food in India has not kept pace with the growth of population. The separation of Burma from the Indian sub-continent in 1935 deprived India of her largest rice producing area. Some other areas with surplus food were lost to India as a result of the partition of Pakistan. Plans have been adopted to increase the output of food crops. The main features are intensive cultivation of existing land and reclamation of new land for cultivation. In addition a ten-year program of land transformation was drawn up which envisages the most rational and balanced utilization of land over a period of ten years with a view to securing the maximum development of land, water and livestock resources. The program includes mobilization of available funds and technical facilities in 48 million acres of land with an assured water supply; reclamation of 10 million acres of waste and fallow lands; organization of a land army supported by an extension service in at least 100,000 villages; production of 60,000 stud bulls a year and the eradication of certain animal pests; and the planting of 30 million trees for the protection and development of forests.
A “Grow More Food” policy has been initiated and efforts are being concentrated in selected areas having an assured supply of water and soil suitable for intensive cultivation. Schemes for distribution of improved seeds, manures and fertilizers are now nor-
mally sanctioned only for these areas. Minor irrigation works are also given preference'on land capable of giving quick returns. Natural calamities have impeded India’s self-sufficiency program the most. Lack of rain, floods and earthquakes have decreased food production. As various schemes for developing agriculture and protecting it from vagaries of nature take time to materialize, India has to import food grains to make up for the shortage. Research is progressing with regard to fertility of soil, quality of grass lands, rice, potato, sugar, oil-seeds, and coconut production.
Cattle are an essential factor in India’s agricultural economy. The country has 150 million cattle which constitute one-fourth of
DELHI — Kutb Minar, dating from the Twelfth Century, is a tower of sandstone, and it is regarded as one of the most perfect in the world.
the world’s cattle population. India’s annual production of fish is 522,000 tons, 71% of which comes from the sea. With an extensive coastline and numerous rivers and lakes, India has potentially rich sources of fish which are being gradually developed and exploited.
Covering nearly one-ninth of the country’s area, forests are an important source of wealth providing employment for nearly one million people. Teak, sal, deodar, cher, sheesham and many other varieties of useful timber come from the forests. Besides providing timber, fuel and fodder, forests yield medicinal herbs and raw materials for the manufacture of paper matches, rubber, resin and turpentine. Diverse rock formations constitute a rich source of building material which include pink marble, granite, cream and reddish-brown sandstone, white and grey , marble and limestone. India has large deposits of a variety of important minerals. Besides iron, mica and titanium which occur in abundance, the country has a surplus of bauxite refractory minerals, steatite, silica, monzite, abrasive and industrial clay available for export. Reserves of coal, aluminum, gold, chrome ore and rare earths are just sufficient to meet domestic demand.
Indian silk, cotton textiles, paper and metal work have been famous throughout the world for centuries. These products were the handiwork of highly skilled individual craftsmen. For a number of years however certain Indian cotton fabrics were denied entry into the British market and manufacture in India itself discouraged. Following the industrial revolution in Europe in the Eighteenth Century., the products of British factories threw Indian artisans out of employment and India progressively became an agricultural outpost of the industrial economy of Great Britain.
The introduction of railways in 1853 was motivated mostly by commercial and strategic considerations. The railways and roads were built so as to facilitate the transport of raw materials from the interior to the ports and to insure the efficient distribution of imported manufactures. The changes that followed the advent of organized transport were more pronounced in the sphere of commerce than in industry. Craft centers suffered depopulation and in their place new cities rose which became important for their distributive trade in cotton textiles and other imported articles. This influx of manufactured imports increased the pressure of population on the land.
Early in the Nineteenth Century, India produced cotton fabrics which were esteemed all over the world and by all standards, production costs were remarkably low. As late as 1813 there was an export surplus in foreign trade. But in 1853 cotton goods constituted 65% of imports from Great Britain. From 1850 to 1855 a few cotton and jute mills and coal mines were started with Indian capital. By 1878, 18 jute mills had been set up, 8,000 miles of railway laid,