7.	How many languages are spoken in India ?
8.	What part of the world’s cattle is raised in India?
9.	Name five minerals found here.
10.	Name two woods.
11.	When was India’s constitution formed?
12.	How is the president elected?
13.	Name three important rivers.
14.	At what ages is education compulsory?
15.	Who may vote in India?
16.	For how long does the president serve?
17.	How is the vice president elected?
18.	Name the two houses in the government.
19.	What part of the world’s tea does India grow?
20.	‘How does India rank in tobacco production?
21.	What part of India is forested ?
22.	What place is called the “Switzerland” of India?
23.	On what date did India gain its independence ?
24.	Where is the Taj Mahal? Why was it built ?
25.	When was Gandhi assassinated?
26.	What does “caste system” mean?
27.	Compare the size of India to that of the United States.
28.	What are monsoons ?
29.	Where are the large iron and steel works ?
30.	What are the chief natural resources?
31.	What important political advances did India make in 1885? 1909? 1947?
II.	MATCH THE FOLLOWING:
A	B
1.	Calcutta	airport
2.	Madras	steel mills
3.	Bombay	port on East coast
4.	Delhi	cotton manufacturing
5.	Karachi	financial center
6.	Jahshedpur	capital of India
III.	DISCUSSION QUESTIONS
1.	What effect has overpopulation, internal politics, climate, and the fight for independence, had on the progress of India?
2.	What is meant by “passive resistance” ?
3.	Why was India called “Britain’s lifeline” ?
4.	Why is India called a land of pageantry?
5.	Why will the views and discussions of India affect the rest of the world? How is India becoming more important to the world?
6.	What does the fact that “every sixth person in the world is an Indian” mean to us?
7.	Why is “grow more food” an important slogan in India?
8.	Why is such a large irrigation system needed even though there is a good deal of rain?
IV.	WHAT DID THE FOLLOWING HAVE TO DO WITH THE HISTORY OF INDIA?
1.	Tagore
2.	Gandhi
3.	Madam Pandit
4.	Sir Stafford Cripps
Pan American
World Airways Teacher	india n
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
the hope that as education spreads, new in-Motion Pictures	dustrial and agrarian methods of raising the
A Family of India, 25 min., sound, black and white. Young America Films. 18 East 41st Street, New York 17, New York.
This film shows the life of an average middle-class Hindu family of India, living near Benares. Ram Das, the head of the family, is caretaker of a large estate. He tells how his family lives—its work, its shopping, its recreation, its education. There are scenes within the home, raising crops, at school, at play, shopping in Benares, and bathing in the Ganges River.
Asian Earth, 22 min., sound, color; also black and white. Atlantic Productions, P. O. Box 18718, Los Angeles, California.
This film subtitled “Life Story of a Hindu Mother”, documents life, activities, and problems of a Hindu peasant family in a village on the lower Ganges. The Mother acts as narrator, explaining and interpreting religious ceremonies, planting, harvesting, home building and handicraft economy, through cycle of a year. Closes with economic problems.
Farmers of India, 20 min., sound, black and white, United World Education Film Dept., 1445 Park Ave., New York 29, N. Y.
One of the “Earth and Its Peoples” series, produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates. In this film of the Middle Ganges Valley, the principle is developed that life in densely populated, underdeveloped lands are marked by great poverty, crowded living conditions and often famine and disease Hindu Family, 10 min., sound, black and white, E. B. F. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, 111.
Portrays a special occasion in the life of the village headsman’s family, the wedding of his older daughter. This serves to give a picture of family relationships and everyday life in this small village in India.
India (Pakistan and the Union of India), 17 min., sound, black and white, E. B. F. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, 111.
Produced under the guidance of Clarence W. Sorenson, this film presents a very comprehensive picture of this country. Includes Hindu and Moslem religions; important economic problems ; a period of drought followed by the monsoon season; ends with
5.	Clive
6.	Nehru
7.	Viscount Wavell
8.	Chester Bowles
9.	Victoria
.V. ON A MAP OF INDIA LOCATE:
1.	The Himalayas
2.	Arabian Sea
3.	Bay of Bengal
4.	Countries bordering India
5.	Calcutta
standards of living will be introduced.
India, Asia’s New Voice, 17 min., sound, black and white, McGraw-Hill Texffilm Division, 330 W. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.
Produced by the March of Time, this film contrasts the life of the high-caste Brahman to that of the lowly Untouchable. It depicts some of the basic problems that confront the government of India. New industry, power projects, public health programs and modernization of agricultural methods are depicted.
The following films are among those available from the Consulate General of India. It is suggested that you write directly to the office nearest you for complete information :
The Consulate General of India 3 E. 64th St., New York, N. Y.
Government of India Information Services 2107 Massachusetts Ave., N. W. Washington, D. C.
Consulate General of India 417 Montgomery St.,
San Francisco, Calif.
Coconut Tree, 10 min., sound, black and white.
This is one of India’s most important “cottage” industries. The various uses of the coconut tree and its economic importance in the life of the country are described. Not only does this tree supply food and drink, but the kernel, fibres, shells and the leaves supply the basic material for some of India’s most important industries.
Delhi, Old and New, 20 min., sound, Technicolor.
Shahjahanabad, or Old Delhi as it is now called, has many architectural masterpieces. The Red Fort dominates the city, and from the Fetchpuri Mosque runs the Chandri Chowk, center of jewelers and silversmiths. Once renowned, it is the richest street in the world. On to New Delhi, with its symmetrical buildings, broad tree-lined avenues and spacious parks, as we see the Parliament House, the imposing Central Secretariat, and the Government buildings. Close by is the President of India’s residence, with its beautifully laid out Mughal gardens. This film concludes with the colorful Republic Day Parade of 1950.
6.	New Delhi
7.	Madras
8.	Bombay
9.	Jumna River
10.	Island of Solsette
11.	Mt. Everest
12.	Ganges River
13.	Indus River
14.	Brahmaputra River
15.	Karachi