Pan AmertcA nr
World Airways Teacher	India 7
NEW DELHI—Lakshmi Narayan Temple, a modern blend of Eastern and Western styles of architecture, was opened in 1937 by Mahatma Gandhi.
and the annual production of coal amounted to over one million tons. By 1914 the number of cotton mills had increased from 58 to 262, jute mills to 64, and about 15.7 million tons of coal were produced.
The sellers’ market created by the first World War gave impetus to the growth of industries. As imports from Europe fell, indigenous industries found ready home markets. In particular, the iron and steel, leather and jute industries availed themselves of the temporary protection afforded by the War. Moreover the concept of imperial economic policy was modified in the light of changing conditions. For strategic and commercial reasons, it was found expedient to encourage certain industries and even to protect them against foreign competition. Imperial preference accorded India the status of a privileged seller of raw materials'and semi-manufactures in the British market. A few industries were granted protection and they made some headway in spite of the worldwide depression.
Local Sources of Supply
World War II again brought home the need for local sources of supply. Many of the factories of Europe had been destroyed, while those of Japan and the United States were engaged in war effort. Enemy action threatened communication lines. India thus emerged as the chief supplier of manufactured goods to the Middle and Far East. The steel industry made rapid strides. A beginning was made in engineering industries, particularly in machine tools and armaments. The textile, paper and leather industries which depended on imported raw materials were seriously handicapped. At the end of hostilities in 1945 the nation’s industrial activity looked promising. Output of steel and cotton textiles were able to cope with three-fourths of internal demand for these goods. India was self-sufficient in sugar, cement and soap. The country enjoyed the benefits of a virtual world monopoly in jute manufactures. The post-war years were critical however. The bulk of industrial equipment, heavily overworked during the war, became obsolete and needed, replacements and repairs. Fear of depression caused the capital market to remain slack. Production declined, raw material supplies were short and production costs rose. Personal incomes rose but were offset by increased cost of living.
At this point India became free, but the partition of the Indian sub-continent threw certain industries out of gear. Jute mills in and around Calcutta were separated from jute growing areas in East Pakistan by a new international frontier. Similarly textile mills in Bombay and Ahmedabad became dependent on Pakistan for about a million bales of raw cotton.
Prompt action was necessary and in 1947 the Government called a conference on industrial development to which representatives of labor and capital were invited. The affairs of Indian industries were reviewed and the objectives of Government planning defined. Most important of all is the increasing of production through more intensive use of existing resources thus bringing prices
down and eventually producing to full capacity. The Central and State Governments invested in the development of railways, roads, river valley and irrigation projects, communications and broadcasting, electricity undertakings, industries and civil aviation. Industries in which government capital was invested included chemicals, penicillin, machine tools, mathematical instruments, ship building, cotton textiles, jute, iron, steel, coal, cement and salt.
Export Surplus
Although throughout the British period India exported more than she imported, her export surplus was mostly expended on the payment of dividends on British capital and the salaries and pensions of British officers in India. Prior to World War II the articles imported into India in order of importance, were raw cotton, textiles, mineral oils, grain, pulses and flour, machinery and millwork, art silk, chemicals used in dyeing and tanning, pasteboard, wood and timber, spices, drugs and medicines, hardware, liquors and raw and manufactured silk. During 1940-41 cotton and textiles alone accounted for one-fourth of all imports. Exports during this period were jute manufactures, tea, raw cotton, cotton manufactures, seeds, raw jute, leather, grain, pulses and flour, hides and skins, tobacco, fruits and vegetables, wool and its manufactures and lac. Jute manufactures alone accounted for one-fourth of all exports.
Essentially a primary producer and exporter of raw materials and semi-processed goods, India’s imports were characteristically those of an agrarian economy. During the 1930’s imports of finished goods began to decline simultaneously with increases in imports of industrial raw materials. Qf manufactured articles, textile imports fell
most. Sugar imports declined. Food grain imports rose. An agrarian economy which pays for imports of manufactured articles with raw materials is usually the hardest hit by a depression. When prices in world markets fall the fall is steepest in agricultural products. Before World War II India’s exports fell rapidly. During World War II the country’s exports found ready and expanding markets in Asia and the Middle and Far East and imports fell. This change for the better was superficial however as it was the result of external events and not due to increased productivity. Partition necessitated other readjustments. Inter-regional trade of undivided India decreased. Export industries became dependent on imported raw materials. Food supplies were lost. Production costs rose. Lack of adequate transportation facilities adversely affected exports.
Entrepot Trading
Before partition entrepot trading was an important feature in India’s foreign trade. Because of strategic geographical position, the nation exported goods manufactured in Europe and America to neighboring Asian countries who in turn sold goods to the West through India. Middleman profit was cut down due to partition particularly with respect to goods coming across India’s land frontiers on the northwest. Bilateral trade agreements were concluded with countries to reduce strain on limited supplies of foreign exchange by securing essential goods from non-dollar areas in return for staple exports.
The structure of India’s foreign trade offers striking evidence of growth of industries. In 1938 capital goods accounted for 20% of total imports and raw materials and consumer goods for 40% each. In 1950-51 capital goods accounted for 19% of total