Pan Am emca n
World Airways Teacher
India 3
!
*
Ì
AGRA — Experienced travellers will tell you that the beauty of the Taj Mahal is breathtaking—that it is one famous structure which never fails to live up to advance ideas as to its loveliness.
INDIA
By Enrique Partes
India, politically, is a new country. Internationally, India enjoys great prestige. Traditionally, however, India has been regarded as a land of wonder and mystery, a place where strange people live and strange things happen. This tradition was established by the Greeks who embellished their accounts of India in the sixth century B. C. with marvels.
The western visitors to India in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries added the elements of splendor and wealth to the existing tradition. The first Portuguese reported the magnificence of Vijayanagar in the Hindu south, and Bernier, a French doctor at the Mogul court of Aurangzeb, vividly described the pomp of the Muslim rulers of the north. He compared the palace of Delhi with Versailles. The new tradition took root, and in England Dryden in writing his play The Tragedy of Aurangzeb used Bernier as his source. Clive and the English nabobs strengthened the tradition in the eighteenth century. The popular novel and the motion picture have fed both traditions down to the present day.
So it turns out that for one man who thinks of India as a place of heat and dust, of physical strain, there are ten who think vaguely of marble palaces and rajahs’ jewels, of a land of wonder and wealth and mystery. Both pictures have their elements of truth, but in fact rubies are less obvious than bullocks, big-game shooting than daily routine in life, and romantic princes than mundane individuals with whom one has to deal.
You as modern traveler will arrive in Calcutta by air and find yourself at once in the general type of conditions associated with the tropical east. The characteristic is the palm in all its varieties, the typical scene one of brilliant green. There are hills, but not too high, there is heat, but not in excess except for short periods. Then you go to the hills, the mountains, the plain, and the complete new world which opens out, sharpens the mind, stimulates the imagination, and freshens the spirit.
Returning to more mundane matters, the impression which you may first receive is that of noise. The noise of the city bazaars, unlike the dull roar of a western city, is quite characteristic; here again, particular sounds like the musical cries of street vendors or the hurried wailing of a Hindu funeral, once heard are never forgotten. However, the external impressions, along with the glimpses of mosques and temples, palaces and gardens, must, like all first impressions, give place to others; impressions of obvious things are followed by those of obvious people. At first you have the curious feeling that all faces are alike; gradually you realize that features and complexions vary as much as they do in our own part of the world.
In this short story one is not expected to give long descriptions of different races, religions, palaces and so forth; most of them
tend to create a myth of an exotic fairyland which is as far from actuality as the world of Tennyson’s Idylls of the King was from the conditions of late fifth-century England. The Taj Mahal or Ajanta no more typify India than the Brooklyn Bridge typifies America. The monuments of India are there, but so are the huts and little houses built in thousands arid thousands of small villages.
India Takes Its Place
The Union of India is a sovereign Republic of the British Commonwealth of Nations. The Union is bounded on the west by West Pakistan, on the north by the Soviet Union, China, Tibet and Nepal, and on the east by Burma. East Pakistan is an enclave in the northeast section of the Union. Many of the internal political boundaries were drastically altered from 1947 to 1949 when most of the states ruled by native princes either amalgamated into unions or joined existing provinces.
The constitution which went into force in 1950 provides that regardless of their former nature all units of the Union are to be termed States. The constitution establishes a federal republic. A President chosen by an electoral college heads the government. There is a bicameral Parliament: the House of the People and the Council of State.
For our purpose it suffices to say that the British East India Company which had established trading posts at Surat (1612), Bombay (1661), and Calcutta (1690) soon became dominant in India, and with its command of the sea drove off Portugal and Holland. From 1746 to 1763, India was the battleground for the forces of England and France. The victory of Robert Clive ended all European threats to the power of
the British Company. The British Empire in India was recognized in the Treaty of Paris of 1763. Later the East India Company was abolished, and the Crown ruled directly through a viceroy. The power of Britain was symbolized when Victoria was crowned Empress of India in 1877.
Very sopn some Indians educated in the newly opened government universities envisaged dominion status for their country and organized the Indian National Congress in 1885. Years later Great Britain made some concessions when elected members were provided for the Viceroy’s Legislative Council. Separate Moslem and Hindu electorates, used here for the first time, were to be a major factor in driving a wedge between the two communities. During the First World War all elements in India were firmly united behind the government, chiefly in the hope that loyalty would be rewarded with a greater measure of liberty. Gandhi, the leader of the Congress Party, felt that too little had been granted by the Government of India Act of 1919, which although it transferred some control in the provinces to elected officials, retained great powers in the appointed governors. Gandhi organized the first of many passive-resistance campaigns and suffered imprisonment with other nationalist leaders. There were many imperial round-table conferences concerning India, but no important change was made until the Government of India Act of 1935 established provincial legislatures. In the first election (1937), held under the Act, the Congress Party led by Nehru won majorities in 7 of the 11 provinces. The Party wanted united opposition of Great Britain, and this desire was balked by the Moslem