Pa/v American
8 India	IfOElO AfffMVE TEACHER
KASHMIR — Kashmir is a favorite spot for winter vacations, and this photograph shows Gulmarg, which is one of the finest winter resorts.
imports, raw materials for 27% and consumer goods for 54%. Although the share of capital goods slightly diminished their money value actually tripled. They mostly comprised industrial equipment imported to replace machinery which had become obsolete or to establish new industries.
In 1950 India’s exports were 23% food, drink and tobacco; 45% raw materials and 30% manufactured goods. In 1938-39 the percentage share of these same commodities had been 24%, 21% and 54% respectively. Exports of tea, spices and tobacco increased while considerable quantities of grain had to be imported. Raw materials now constitute a much smaller proportion of exports, their place having been taken by manufactured articles. Cotton textiles bulk larger in exports rather than imports. Jute, cotton manufactures, tea, spices, vegetable oils, raw cotton and wool, tobacco, seeds, gums, fruits, mica and manganese have constituted the bulk of India’s exports in recent years.
Before World War II over half the volume of India’s foreign trade was with the sterling area and, on an average, only about 10% with the dollar area. In the following decade trade with the sterling area, Germany and Japan declined sharply. As a result, the share of the dollar area in India’s foreign trade has risen to about 25%. The direction of India’s import and export trade has undergone equally significant changes. Needs are no longer met exclusively by United Kingdom imports. The United States, Egypt, Iran and Australia have found an expanding Indian market for their goods. Similarly India’s exports to the United Kingdom have steadily declined in volume with the United States, Singapore, Australia and Canada importing increasing quantities of Indian
goods. The United States is one of India’s most important customers and her imports of jute goods, paper, mica and manganese have shown a steady upward trend. In return India buys American food grains, raw cotton and metals.
Any rise in the rate of industrial development in India will depend in part on the adequacy of transportation. The principal means of land transport in the country are the railways. The Indian railway system is by far the largest in Asia and the second biggest State-owned enterprise in the world. During partition, 4 million people traveled by rail to different areas of the nation in seven and one-half months. Railroads now cover 34,119 route miles. In 1951-52 Indian railroads carried 98 million tons of freight, 1,232 million passengers and ran nearly 3,870 passenger trains a day. Roads are another important means of overland transport. There are about 255,000 miles of roads in the country. An additional 311,000 miles oi roads are being planned at a cost of 56 million dollars to serve India’s 565,000 villages. There are about 310,000 motor vehicles in the country.
Ton for ton, mile for mile, it is cheaper to transport goods by water than rail. Lack of speed can be more than made up by the bulk carried at a time. India has a coastline of over 3,500 miles and merchant ships from all important maritime countries call at its ports.
India is at a meeting point of air routes between the East and West and as such holds a key position in international aviation. With its vast distances and favorable climate it presents an ideal atmosphere for air transportation throughout the year. Civil aviation in India has been nationalized and regular
services are available on about fifty routes, both domestic and foreign. A number of foreign airlines serve India. Pan American World Airways Clippers land at Calcutta on their round-the-world service, the only United States-Flag Line to completely encircle the globe.
INDIA
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is India called the
land of wonder and mystery?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	India is in the daily news continually. It is important that we know the background of a country making decisions which may help to shape world history.
2.	It is important that we know about the culture of one of the oldest and most populated nations of the world.
3.	The names of Indian statesmen have become familiar to all.
4.	India has taken an important part in the recent Asian-African conference.
5.	Helen Keller, on her trip around the world, spent some time in India.
6.	Report of Chester Bowles, former Ambassador to India.
7.	Work of Madam Pandit in the United Nations.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: three weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Current events should be the main approach in the study of India. There are daily articles appearing in every newspaper.
2.	Helen Keller is on a world tour. Read of her visit to India.
3.	Stories of Mahatma Gandhi and Nehru will create an interest in the country.
4.	Work of Madam Pandit in the United Nations is a good way to get started.
5.	Use the audio and visual aids mentioned in this issue to introduce the sub j ect.
6.	Review some of the books listed in the bibliography.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What are the relations between the United States and India today?
2.	What has India offered to the world in the form of culture?
3.	How may technical and scientific improvements change the productivity of the country?
4.	Why will the decisions of India have such an important effect on the world today ?
5.	What are the many differences in people and religions in India?
6.	Why was India called “Britain’s lifeline” ?
7.	What are the many changes in government which have taken place?
8.	Why is it said that India holds a key position in international aviation?