Pan Amenìcan
World Airways Teacher
India 9
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A.	Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:—geographic influences'; Himalaya Mountains; cities, Delhi, Calcutta, Bombay, Madras, Karachi, Jamshedpur; bodies of water, Bay of Bengal, Arabian Sea. Ganges, Brahmaputra, Indus, Jumna Rivers; important exports and imports ; natural resources; people of India, the social, racial, cultural groups ; the many religions ; transportation and communication; problems of overpopulation, climate; leaders like Gandhi, Pandit, Nehru; work in the United Nations ; the place of women in India; the spread of education; changes in farming methods; handwork of Indian people such as metal-'work, enameling, jewelry; many languages; Taj Mahal, one of the wonders of the world; 85% of the people engaged in agriculture; producers of 1/3 of the world’s cattle, 1/2 the tea of the world; 1/9 of India is forested; U.S. help, Point Four and UNESCO; government, a republic, president elected for five years, a vice president, two houses, House of People and Council of States ; meeting point of air routes between East and West; customs; how India became independent; universities ; assassination of Gandhi in 1948. (Much information for Social Studies subject matter may be found in this issue)
2.	Science:—study of the Himalayan range of mountains; droughts and famines; largest irrigation system in the world; natural deep harbors; the contributions of India to science; sugar cane area is the largest in the world; forests of India with peculiar trees such as teak, deodor, sal, shees-ham; Sukkur Barrage across the Indus River; monsoons; various climates of India; some of the wettest and some of the driest spots.
3.	Mathematics:—graphs of makeup of population of India; contributions of India to mathematics ; IOJ2 hours difference in time; product graphs showing imports and exports and amount of food needed for home consumption; costs in transportation by land, water, air; comparison in travel, ship 25-45 days, plane 45 hours; money system (rupee).
4.	Health:—story of the many “untouchables” ; the problems of providing good food for so many people; living conditions from the highest to the lowest; national game is hockey ; hunting, especially pig sticking, is a favorite sport; rice is the staple article of diet; much fish used as food; great strides made in public health and better outlook for the future.
5.	Language Arts:—India is a land of many languages (200).
a.	New words—you will come across many new words in reading material on India. The vocabulary
list at the end should prove helpful.
b.	Spelling—the names of people and places will be difficult. Sanskrit. Hindu language.
c.	Oral communication : sharing with others information gotten through interviews, book reviews, audio visual aids; reporting on answers to specific questions; discussions on the many problems in India.
d.	Written Communication: imaginary sightseeing trips such as visiting the Taj Mahal; reporting on famous statesmen; letters seeking information; book reviews ; summaries of news articles; describing a trip from your home to India; writing about India’s famous mosques, temples and bazaars ; describing some of India’s customs.
e.	Literature: famous Indian poet, Tagore, winner of Nobel prize in 1913; Bankin Chandra Chatterji, writer ; Dravidian language rich in literature but little translated into other languages; Hindu literature ; review some of material listed in bibliography.
6.	Art:—Taj Mahal; Indian museum; architecture is the chief art; handwork on ivory, brocades, textiles, metalwork, jewelry, pottery; Robert Steed exhibit of paintings of India.
7.	Music:—visit of Yehudi Menuhin to India and his concert of Indian music at Museum of Modern Art; no harmony in Indian music; many drums and flutes used; sacrod, tabia, tam-pura, are Indian instruments; music follows ritual; Ali Akbar Khan and Chatur Lai modern Indian musicians ; Rig-Veda, oldest known hymns; classical dances; ballet. Bharata school of dancing.
B.	Skills:—much current material will be used in this unit. Therefore, the difference between fact and fiction should be stressed; comparisons will be made; skimming, organizing and outlining will be important.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
1.	A respect for the opinions of leaders of other nations even though we may not always be in agreement.
2.	An understanding of the vastness of India and its many and difficult problems..
3.	An interest in the culture which India has contributed to the world.
4.	An understanding of the importance of India in world affairs today.
5.	An interest in the leaders of India, past and present.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A. Things To Do:
1.	Have an exhibit of things made in India.
2.	Make a “Who’s Who in India.”
3.	Use the visual aids suggested in this issue.
4.	Make some visual aids of your own upon completion of this unit.
5.	Write to Madam Pandit, Yehudi Menuhin, Helen Keller, Chester Bowles, for some further information on India.
6.	Read some books about India and share your information with other classes.
7.	Invite air line personnel who have visited India to speak to your class and other classes.
8.	Interview parents or teachers who have been to India.
9.	Make many maps showing locations, places of interest, people of India, products of India, etc.
10.	Plan an air trip from your home town to New Delhi. Then, plan what you will see in India.
11.	Make a scrap book of news articles on India.
12.	Make a chart showing the many languages, religions and peoples of India.
13.	Visit the U.N. individually or as a class and learn about India’s part in the U.N.
14.	Arrange discussions on various phases of Indian life and ideas today.
15.	Make a chart showing the changes in the government in India through the ages.
16.	Start a picture collection on India.
B. Culmination:
1.	An assembly quiz program would be helpful to other classes.
2.	An exhibit of your charts, graphs, scrapbooks, news articles and pictures, would be interesting.
3.	Play some Indian music and explain the various instruments used.
4.	Plan a round table discussion for an assembly period.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
1.	Plenty of colorful pictures; as reading matter may be difficult.
2.	Audio and visual aids will be a great help.
3.	Books and magazines.
4.	Personnel
5.	Realia
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
The study of the problems of India should lead to an interest in other countries attending the Asian-African conference.
Some words from Sanskrit:
matar—mother
petar—father
bhratar—brother
swasar—sister
duhitar—daughter
sarpa—servant
sunu—son
The People of India may be:
Brahmens—hereditary, holy (Nehru) Kshatruj as—warriors Varsyas—traders (Gandhi)
Sudras—cultivators Untouchables