Pan American
World	Alrhays Teacher
Pakistan 7
A cotton mill, East Pakistan
kets, carpets, jute products, furniture and pots and pans. There are also colored textiles, embroidered silks and muslins, inlaid metal work of brass and copper, wood carvings, filigree work in gold and silver, ivory carvings, jewelry and handpainted paper mache work.
In Sialkot there are two thriving industries—a surgical instrument industry and the manufacture of sports equipment. During World War II Sialkot industries made a notable contribution to the Allied war effort through their surgical instruments which were of high quality. Every type of sports gear is made in the city for export all over the world, but badminton rackets are an especially popular American import.
Pakistan is a land of great rivers. The Indus sweeps down the entire length of West Pakistan. Into it flow the Jhelum, the Chenab, the Ravi and the Sutlej. Radiating from these rivers is an intricate network of man-made canals and dams equipping the Indus Valley region with one of the finest irrigation systems in the world. Connected to the largest of these dams, the mile-long Sukkur Barrage, are 36,000 miles of canals and watercourses. Owing to the low rainfall in most of West Pakistan, this water system is vitally important, for, without it, one of the richest agricultural areas on the globe would become an arid desert.
In East Pakistan, no man made irrigation methods are needed. The countryside is covered with rivers and creeks and during the heavy rains, their overflow deposits a rich layer of silt over the land. The main rivers of East Pakistan, the' Ganges, the Brahmaputra and the Surma are navigable to inland steamers for the greater part of their length.
Pakistan’s most important port, Karachi, is sometimes called the first port of the East
because of its accessibility to Europe. It has a first class natural harbor and a port handling capacity of about 12,000 tons a day. Most of the principal cities in the country can be reached by air and the newly established Pakistan International Airlines has inaugurated service between Dacca, Karachi, Damascus and London.
The airport at Karachi is one of the busiest in the East and it is there that Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers bring air travelers for visits to Pakistan. Five other national airlines also serve Karachi which is the aerial gateway to Asia.
East Pakistan’s principal port is Chittagong, the Porto Grande of ancient times. Before Pakistan became a nation this port had been neglected by the Indian Government in favor of Calcutta but present handling has increased Chittagong’s capacity to two million tons per year, four times its previous capacity. A new anchorage at Chalna called Port Jinnah was opened in December 1950 to cope with the ever-increasing trade of East Pakistan. The nation’s second largest city (Karachi is the largest) is Lahore, capital of the Punjab. It is the nation’s cultural and academic center. Other important cities are Dacca, capital of East Pakistan; Peshawar, capital of the North West Frontier Province; and Rawalpindi in the Punjab.
As a primarily agricultural country, Pakistan’s financial position has been subject to constant changes in world commodity prices over which it has no control. Her main exports are cotton and jute with some wool, hides and skins and black tea added and on these the nation had to depend to earn the foreign exchange needed for the purchase of defense equipment, for capital equipment for industrial development, for consumer goods of the most ordinary sort and for food and medicine.
Many serious financial problems faced the new country which might have prevented its growth. But Pakistan’s people were so determined to make their new country work that almost unbelievable accomplishments were achieved. Arrangements for financing and marketing crops were made and the whole machine of Government set going with increasing efficiency. Due to stockpiling in the United States and elsewhere commodity prices were higher and Pakistan’s foreign earnings grew.
Then world commodity prices started down. Much of the reserve the nation had built up diminished. The country knew then that what they had suspected from the beginning was true—an economy based only on
Irrigation canal — Development project — West Pakistan.