12 Pakistan
Pan Amer r can
World Airways Teacher
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
This is Pakistan, 24 min. Sound-Color-also Black & White. Hollywood Film Enterprises, 6060 Sunset Boulevard, Hollywood
28,	California.
A fine new color documentary, filmed by Hal Linker on his recent visit to Pakistan. In this film there is a complete coverage of East and West Pakistan, the jute industry, the cotton industry, the Khyber Pass, Karachi, Lahore, Peshawar, Dacca, Chittagong. Street scenes show the various types of transportation; from camel carts to double-decker buses, the bazaars and also some of the recent modern buildings. There are close-ups of the people, their customs, of tribal dances and religious Moslem observances.
Promise of Pakistan. 17 min. Sound, Black & White. McGraw Hill Book Co., Text Film Dept. 330 West 42nd St., New York 18, New York.
Produced by the March of Time in 1950, this film shows the progress and plans for future development' of the new nation, Pakistan, which was created on August 15, 1947. Lumbering caravans are shown moving slowly through Khyber Pass as well as modern airliners landing at Karachi Airport. We visit great modern newspaper plants, and we observe religious customs dating back thousands of years. It is a land of strange contrasts.
The United Nations and World Disputes. 21 min. Sound B. & W. U. W. Govt., United World Films, 1445 Park Ave., New York
29.
This film produced by the U. S. Army in 1950, reviews four major disputes that since 1945 have threatened World peace,—Indonesia, Pakistan, India and Korea,—and demonstrates how the U. N. was successful in resolving each one.
Help for Pakistan. 10 min., Sound, Black & White. U. N. Film Division, Films & Visual Information Division, United Nations, New York City, N. Y.
Shows the needs which exist in Pakistan and the aid received from the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund and the Technical Assistance Program.
Ali and His Baby Camel. 10 min., Sound, B. & W. also color. Atlantic Productions, Inc., P.O. Box 18718, Los Angeles, Cal.
Filmed in the Middle East and the Sind Desert of West Pakistan, there is presented a description of the various ways camels work, for desert people, including shots of a camel market. The story centers around a boy, Ali, and his pet camel.
New South Asia. 30 min. Sound, Black & White. National Film Board of Canada, 1270 Sixth Ave., New York, N. Y.
A series of camera studies of the peoples of India, East and West Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon and Indonesia engaged in Agriculture, industry, fishing, lumbering, and the ordinary pursuits of domestic life. Improved methods introduced by U. S., technical as-
sistance demonstrated and benefits of U. N. medical aid are shown.
The following films are available from the Consulate of Pakistan, 12 East 65th St., New York City, on loan at nominal charge of $1.50 per film for mailing and handling when sent by mail. Checks should be made payable to the Consulate General of Pakistan. Borrowers are asked to return films promptly after the date for which they are requested, and they are also asked to indicate their second and third choices since their first and second choices may not be available for the date selected.
“Dacca.” 15 min. sd. B. & W. This film shows views of Dacca and industries in the surrounding country.
“Painting in Pakistan.” 20 min. sd. B. & W. This film opens with views of some of the famous Mogul Art now in the British Museum, London, and goes on to show Pakistani artists of to-day at work in Pakistan.
“Toivards Tomorrow.” 20 min. sd. B. & W. This film develops the theme of progress in different industries and aspects of life in Pakistan, for example, “The Six Year” Plan, Irrigation Projects, Navigation.
“Mrs. Roosevelt in Pakistan.” 15 min. sd. B. & W. This film was made during the tour of Mrs. Roosevelt in 1952.
“Pakistan Panorama.” 20 min. sd. B. & W. A panorama of scenes in various provinces, agriculture, industry, shipping and trade, cottage industries and the famous Mosques and ruins, and the peoples of Pakistan.
Polk Songs and Dances of Pakistan. 18 min. sd. B. & W. Traditional tribal folk songs and dances are portrayed.
Antiquities of Pakistan. 18 min. sd. B. & W. Famous mosques, ancient tombs, statues
and marble memorial buildings, old paintings and other antiquities.
Made in Pakistan. 2 reels each, 15 min. sd. B. & W. Depicts industrial development, sugar, jute, cotton, etc. and shows economic progress.
Women of Pakistan. 18 min. sd. Color. A comprehensive picture of the achievement of women in this new nation and the part they play now in the life of the country.
Pakistan, 14 min., Sound, Black & White, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, 111.
The world’s sixth most populous nation and one of its youngest is Pakistan. The film opens with a colorful parade on the anniversary of the Independence Day on which the large British territory India was divided into two independent states, the dominion of Pakistan and the republic of India. In Pakistan, the Moslem religion binds together people of many races and languages. Another common bond is their simple way of life, which depends largely on hand labor and crude tools. Pakistan itself is split into two parts, separated by the thousand mile width of Northern India.
Filmstrips
Pivot of Asia. N. Y. Times (Dec. 1950 Issue of Monthly Report on the news) B. & W., 53 frames. Birth of Pakistan and of the Republic of India. After showing the break with England leading to dominion status, the filmstrip follows with a section “Pakistan vs. India” (8 frames) and then, after considering the new Indian Republic’s problems, ends with a section ‘Pakistan’s Problems” (10 frames). Good maps.
Pakistan. 20 frames, silent with captions, B. & W., Young America Films Inc. 18 East 41st, St., N. Y. C. This filmstrip, one of the “Families of the World” series, presents the story of Mohammed Usman, his wife and their five children, how they live and cultivate their farm of 2)4 acres of land in the village of Patri, near the city of Rohri.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons’’
PAKISTAN
LOCATION ... Two widely spaced units comprise the new nation of Pakistan. East and West Pakistan are separated by approximately 1,000 miles of foreign territory, much the same as Alaska is separated from Continental United States. West Pakistan adjoins India, Iran, Afghanistan and the Chinese province of Sinkiang, whereas East Pakistan ahuts the Republic of India, and Burma.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . While the name Pakistan is a new one, the land is both ancient and colorful. The terrain of East Pakistan is flat, covered with rivers, and very verdant. The landscape of West Pakistan is extremely varied, consisting of snow-capped hills and green valleys, with abundant food and fruit production. The latitude is similar to that of Southern California, as, except for the Himalayan region, is the terrain. You will find the people of Pakistan friendly and hospitable to visitors, especially Americans.
POPULATION . . . With a population of about 80,000,000 people, Pakistan is the fifth largest country in the world, numerically.
SIZE . . . About 364,218 square miles, which is larger than the combined areas of California, Oregon and Washington.
CAPITAL . . . Karachi, the capital of Pakistan, is a well-planned, modern city, with over a million population. Karachi is a big port and possesses one of the most up-to-date and busiest airports in Asia.
GOVERNMENT ... A federation of states, called provinces, with a parliamentary form of government. The Cabinet which is responsible to the Constituent Assembly and through it to the people, consists of about ten members headed by a Prime Minister.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, about 37 hours elapsed time from New York. Karachi is on Pan American’s Round-the-World route. By ship, about 23 days.