Pan Amfr f can
Won to Airways
Pakistan 5
Govt, of Pakistan Photo
TRANSPORTATION — Movement of people and goods is accomplished by means ranging from camel carts to Flying Clippers. The camel retains great importance. Note in this picture that the cart has modern rubber tires.
bearing portion of the blossom which constitute the saffron of commerce, often selling for as much as seventy-five dollars a pound. When mixed with water it forms a rich yellow dye. Kashmir’s saffron is famous for its bouquet and is used not only as a spice but also as a pigment for the forehead marks of Hindus. Buddhist monks dye their robes with it.
Pakistanis are very fond of sports. They have in addition a national style of wrestling and odd games like kite contests in which the kite strings, treated with glue and ground glass, can saw down rival kites. Pakistanis are good polo, soccer and cricket players.
In 1954, their team defeated the All-England experts in the final test match and drew the series. It was a national holiday on that great occasion.
Some of the Cities
Karachi, the capital and principal city, has one of the finest airports in Asia. And it should be so, for it is certainly one of the busiest, with planes arriving at all hours of the day and night from different points of the compass. Karachi is growing like a mushroom. It has more than 1,400,000 inhabitants (seven years ago it had some 300,000). Being a brand-new nation, Pakistan is not handicapped by old ideas. The officials, all young, seem eager to do the best they can to give you a good impression, and this particularly applies to the customs, immigration, and health officers. Karachi is a city where construction goes on with fervor.
The first thing that strikes the traveler is the traffic. It is as heterogeneous as it is possible to imagine. Trucks, buses, taxis, donkey carts, pushcarts, motorcycles, and motorcars all compete with his Lordship the Camel—thousands of them. Hustle and bustle are the order of the day. Pakistan started from scratch. It has about 75,000,000 people today, but at the beginning, the country had only one typewriter and one good typist, so goes the story. Everybody, from the highest to the lowest set to work willingly, following the example of their leader, Ali Jinnah, who worked himself into an early grave.
Today Karachi has excellent hotels. Its motion-picture theatres are brilliantly illuminated, and it has fine restaurants and interesting boulevards. Karachi’s Municipal building, which houses the city authorities, is built of light-red sandstone. Its clock tower dominates the domes of each corner.
Karachi is a very active and youthful city. It is the gateway to a country which is struggling vigorously to obtain its rightful place among the nations of the world.
Lahore, with a population of about one million, is the second largest city of Pakistan. Punjab University, with more than forty colleges and institutions, can be found here. Lahore is the principal cultural and academic center of the nation. In Lahore you will see the exquisite Shalimar Gardens which were laid out by the Mogul Emperor Jehangir, whose son built the Taj Mahal at Agra. However, Lahore’s Shalimar Gardens should not be confused with Shalimar, “The Garden of Love”, which the same Emperor created on the shore of Dal Lake in the Valley of Kashmir. Both are masterpieces of gardening, but the Lahore garden does not
have the magnificent background of the Himalayas. Not far from the city is the splendid tomb of Jehangir who gave to Lahore its unique Royal Mosque.
This modern city might be termed the Hollywood of Pakistan for its many film studios. The most famous film stars, however, shun publicity, so you may not be able to discover where they live. Wrestling is a popular sport here. Any champion wrestler would have only a slim chance of beating Bhollu, Pakistan’s champion.
Lovers of Kipling may be interested to see in the office of Lahore’s Civil and Military Gazette a plaque which records that Rudyard Kipling once worked there. Kim’s gun, Zam-Zammah, still stands outside the Museum, where Kipling’s father used to be curator.
There are other cities of importance, such as Hyderabad, in the Province of Sind, some 111 miles from Karachi, famous for its silk, gold and tissue embroidery; Sukkur, for its Grand Dam and extraordinary bridge over the Indus; Rawalpindi, situated at the foot of the Himalayas, is the headquarters of the Pakistan Army. Peshawar, of course, must be mentioned. There are few more historic cities than Peshawar. Only a dozen miles from the entrance to the Khyber Pass, this
city, with a population of some 200,000, is an important center of trade between Afghanistan and Pakistan. For centuries Afghan merchants have brought their caravans from Kabul, Bokhara, and Samarkand to Peshawar. In the days before Partition the caravans could travel through the Khyber Pass only between certain hours on only two days a week, when, thanks to an arrangement with the British, the tribesmen did not fire upon them. Today, however, the caravans pass through unmolested. Peace reigns now and the Khyber Pass is actually open to tourists.
Pakistan is a country of strange contrasts. You will see turbaned tribesmen driving new American cars through streets crowded with camel carts. You will see modern factories standing next to the stalls of native craftsmen. Bullocks turn water wheels in the shadow of huge hydroelectric projects. You will ride trains and elephants, trucks and camels, airplanes and jeeps, river steamers and dugout canoes. You will discover also that Pakistan is an optimistic and constructive nation. The Pakistanis and their leaders know what they want and know how to choose their friends, and they believe in the ideals in which you and I also believe—the ideals of a free world.