10 Pakistan
visit to a Mosque; writing a book review; describing a kite contest, a wrestling match or a cricket game; writing about the importance of jute; imagining a visit to a Pakistani village and telling of the lives of the people there.
e.	Literature:—reviews of some of the material in the Bibliography of this issue; some study of the Koran; Tagore, the Indian poet.
f.	Penmanship :—Persian script, read and written from right to left.
3.	Science—differences in climate in East and West Pakistan; irrigation of the Indus Basin; Sundarbans— dense jungles; animals such as the Bengal tiger, leopard, bear, wild boar; excavated cities; jute; sheep and goats.
4.	Health —living conditions in densely populated villages; jungle diseases; growth of use of women as nurses and doctors; sports such as wrestling, (Bhollu is their champion) kite contests, polo, soccer and cricket (won the 1954 championship) ; native foods.
5.	Art:—old culture of India; home handicrafts are important. The people in the villages embroider silks, do inlaid brass and copper work, wood carvings, filigree in gold and silver, ivory carvings, paper mache work, make leather footwear, saddles, belts, carpets and blankets.
6.	Mathematics :—in this unit much use can be made of graphs. These may be used to depict the increases in products,- the growth of industries, changes in exports and imports and shifts in population; large numbers and percentages will be used; value of exchange ; distances from place to place in Pakistan as well as from the United States to the cities of Pakistan.
B.	Skills:
How to locate information; the skills of
organizing facts and making comparisons
should be a definite part of this unit.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
1.	The realization that many of the problems faced by the U.S. in its beginning are also faced by other new nations.
2.	The understanding that many of the good things we have developed can be used by other beginning nations.
3.	An interest in the needs and problems of new nations.
4.	A realization of the strategic position of this new nation.
5.	An understanding of how people become leaders.
6.	An understanding that the wishes and desires of people are the same in many parts of the world.
7.	An interest in the future of this nation.
8.	An understanding of the many handicaps that have been overcome and those which still exist.
9.	A realization of the influence of one nation upon another.
Pan Amfríca/v
Wo tuo A/ßmrs Teacorr
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	Things To Do:
1.	Start a bulletin board on items of interest on Pakistan.
2.	Make a scrapbook of news stories and pictures.
3.	Show films about Pakistan.
4.	Write for more information on Pakistan.
5.	Look up some “pen pals” in Pakistan.
6.	Compile a list of books and magazine articles accessible to the students in your class.
7.	Draw the flag of Pakistan.
8.	Make a chart of the most important rivers, cities, universities, etc.
9.	Read about the languages and script used in Pakistan.
10.	Collect and exhibit some articles made in Pakistan.
11.	Dress puppets to show the variation in dress of the East and West Pakistani.
12.	Make a large map of Pakistan and point up the important places. Chart the distances from other important places in the world.
13.	Invite a member of one of the airlines who may have been to Pakistan to speak to your class.
14.	Read some of the books listed.
15.	Quiz each other on the questions in this issue.
16.	Arrange a debate on one of the discussion questions.
17.	Make a chart showing the various species of wild life in Pakistan.
18.	Follow the news of Pakistan in the United Nations.
19.	Compare the leaders of Pakistan to early leaders in the U.S.
B.	Culmination:
Since so little is known about Pakistan share your information with other classes:
1.	Show a movies and add information you have gathered.
2.	Explain your charts and exhibits.
3.	Prepare a quiz for other classes in an assembly period.
4.	Talk about the leaders of Pakistan.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
A.	Pictures, books, magazines
B.	Audio Visual aids. Use as many films as possible.
C.	Personnel
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
A study of Pakistan may create an interest in other newly formed nations as well as in t^iose in the process of changing their present status.
VOCABULARY
Knowing what these words mean will help you to understand the interesting information about Pakistan.
acceded
accessibility
acrostic
agate
alabaster
'alloy
gave consent to, agreed easily approached usually the first letter of each word or line forms a name, phrase or sentence waxy quartz
white, fine grained gypsum, used for ornaments used to modify the mixture
arable	fit for cultivation, can be plowed
ascertained	made definite, made sure
barren	land producing nothing
bi-cameral	two chambers or branches in the governing body
bullocks	oxen, over 4 years old
commodity	an article of trade, something bought or sold
comprises	consists of
curator	person in charge of a museum
debris	ruins, rubbish
density	closeness
disintegrate	to break into pieces or parts, usually gradually
dynasty	succession of rulers in one family line
electrolytic	chemical compounds decomposed by electric currents
ensure	to make sure
excavated	dug out
fervor	earnestness, zeal
filigree	design on jewelry looking like lace
foliage	growth of leaves
forte	specialty, strong point
gram	food, like peas, used for men, horses, cattle
gypsum	mineral, granular and transparent
heterogeneous	unlike, dissimilar
hydrogenated	combined with hydrogen
ideological	fanciful
indigenous	native, originating in that country
innumerable	so numerous that they cannot be counted
intricate	complicated, involved
Islamic	follower of Mohammedan religion
loquat	small yellow fruit (like a plum) used for preserving
mangoes	fruit resembling an apple
millet	forms of grass and seed used for cereal
mosques	Mohammed temples of worship
penetrated	forced its way into, pierced
pigment	coloring material
potassium	bluish white metallic element mixed with many other elements
predominantly	chief in importance or number
priority	superior, first in rank or condition
profusion	overabundant supply
rent	tear a hole or slit
repugnant	offensive, disliked
rupees	monetary unit in India
secular	worldly rather than spiritual
silt	fine sediment carried and deposited by water
stockpiling	accumulating material
unique	only one of its kind, rare
BIBLIOGRAPHY
(Not too much has been written about this new countrjc Much of what is written is on the adult level. Most material will have to be gathered from current periodicals. This issue of Pan American World Airways Teacher therefore becomes doubly valuable