PART AME RICAIV
Page T-3
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
PATTERN FOR STEWARDESSES: BEAUTY AND BRAINS
by Jane Kilbourne
Intelligent conversation is the secret ingredient of being beautiful.
That’s one of the main lessons a former grammar school teacher imparts to the 350 glamorous stewardesses who fly the Atlantic for Pan American World Airways.
The textbooks in this part of an extensive Pan Am grooming and beauty program are current newspapers and magazines.
Anne Leinbach, a former Pennsylvania teacher and herself a model mixture of beauty and intelligence, brings the magic of a beauty workshop to experienced stewardesses and unfolds secrets of good grooming and personality to stewardesses now being trained for the jet age.
Miss Leinbach has been assigned by Pan American World Airways, the first airline to order American-built jet transports, to help develop the personalities of stewardesses to conform with Pan Am’s high standards of proficiency.
Preservation of Personality
Pan American officials want to be sure that the personality of trainees is not submerged in a tidal wave of technical information pertinent to their becoming familiar with their jobs in the sky.
Also, Pan American is anxious that its world-traveling stewardesses keep alert to the latest in grooming and beauty techniques.
So, the international airline has hired Miss Leinbach to see that its stewardesses stay beautiful — and well-informed.
Pan American’s stewardess trainees are carefully selected from hundreds of candidates in many countries. Part of Miss Lein-bach’s assignment is to make sure that the girls from foreign countries are able to express themselves in idiomatic “American,” while retaining their continental charm. They must be able to converse easily, and in an informed manner with the airline’s passengers who wish to talk about current events and more informal subjects while flying at 30,000 feet above the ground.
“We don’t want assembly-line cabin attendants, all looking and smiling alike, like rows of kewpie dolls in an amusement park The object of our program is to develop the personality of each subject as an individual, to make her a more interesting person,” Lloyd M. Wilson, Pan Am’s Atlantic Division Service Manager, says.
Therefore, Miss Leinbach helps extend stewardess training into new dimensions, including conversation, makeup application, and hair styling.
The speech aspect of Miss Leinbach’s program insists that stewardesses cannot limit their conversation to “the rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain,” so a current events discussion has been fitted into an al-ready-tight training schedule to generate interest “in what is going on in the world which we fly over.”
This phase of the personality program also sees Miss Leinbach introducing stewardess trainees to a variety of magazines and newspapers. “The girls from abroad sit wide-eyed as I go through our American magazines,” Miss Leinbach reveals.
Grooming and Appearance
The other side of the coin concerns grooming and appearance. Trainees are taken from their classroom in Pan Am’s Long Island City building to Manhattan where Miss Leinbach uses the facilities of the John Robert Powers School for a makeup workshop. Miss Leinbach and her pupils experiment with new materials and learn about the techniques of beauty and good grooming.
In addition, top Manhattan hair stylists assist in maintaining the requirements of simplicity and proper grooming set by Pan American’s Service Department, while finding the hair-do most flattering to the individual girls.
The grooming aspect of the program has been expanded to experienced stewardesses who must look their best constantly—on the job in the air—on the ground during their layovers whether they be in India, Istanbul or Bermuda. Every Monday, a group of six uses the makeup workshop to explore cosmetic application, skin care, and proper choice of colors in cosmetics. In addition, Miss Leinbach advises on individual problems.
Miss Leinbach, a Reading, Pa., doctor’s daughter, has a master’s degree in speech and dramatics from Columbia University. Back home, she taught grade school and later was a speech therapist at the Reading Cerebral Palsy Treatment Center.
For several years it looked as though Anne Leinbach’s occupational horizons were destined to be limited to those of a beautiful and dedicated Reading school marm.
Teacher for Models
Suddenly she was faced with an exciting new opportunity—to go to Manhattan as a teacher on the staff of the John Robert Powers School, the beauty world’s most famous classroom.
Miss Leinbach joined the Powers School’s faculty as a speech teacher, later was trained to instruct such exotic courses as “Manners and Conversation,” “Walking and Comportment,” and “Make Down,” (the subtle application of cosmetics; grooming and hair-styling)-
Her skills in these categories led to free lance lecturing on beauty and grooming to employees of Wall St. firms. This, in turn, brought an interview with Pan American.
And now Pan American stewardesses fulfill their jobs competently in the air filled with the confidence which good grooming and poise bring them as a result of their excellent training by Anne Leinbach.
Miss Leinbach says women travelers will find their grooming and beauty problems aloft greatly simplified when Jet Clippers make the transatlantic flight in 6i/(> hours, or almost half the present scheduled time.
She advises women travelers to apply their usual make-up just before boarding the Clipper and then forget about it for the rest of the flight.
“If make-up is correctly applied in the first place,” Miss Leinbach says, “you can leave the plane looking band-box fresh with only a minimum of re-freshening before landing. No longer will it be necessary to lug down the aisle to the powder room a heavy cosmetic case full of cleansing tissues, cleansing creams, lotions and foundation base. You can utilize that space for packing gifts and souvenirs you’ll want to bring back.
Longer Life for Make-Up
To give your basic make-up longer life, Anne suggests, wearing a thin film of moisture-control cream under your foundation base. This will counteract any drying effect which might be caused by altitude. Also, she adds, a thin film of this same cream over the lips before applying lipstick will help lipstick last longer.
Use your regular make-up from then on, including foundation base, a cream rouge, powder, eyebrow pencil, mascara and lipstick.
Here’s a simplified list of time-saving beauty aids for re-freshening your make-up before deplaning as suggested by Miss Leinbach. All can be contained in your new slim traveling purse.
1.	Special tissues (in small packet) which eliminate need for cleansing cream and various foundations and lotions. Excellent to remove trace of excess oiliness and refreshen skin for new powder.
2.	Purse-size cream rouge.
3.	Compact of compressed powder. Won’t spill and can double as foundation base if necessary. (Use a pinker shade if you’re flying at night. It’s more flattering beneath lights.)
4.	Fountain-pen type mascara holder.
5.	Lipstick with creamy base for those high altitudes.
5. Little “pillows” of hand lotion.
7.	Pencil combination of eye liner and eyebrow shader.
8.	Small double duty combination of comb and brush.
All of the above products can be obtained at leading drug and department stores throughout the U. S.
Miss Leinbach also has a “Don’t” for jet air travel. “Don’t,” she cautions, “wear a girdle or shoes which are too tight. Tight girdles and shoes can cause discomfort and in turn, frown lines!