Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
regard to exports. The raw material is processed as wood pulp, cellulose, paper and cardboard. Next to wood and iron, paper is the largest provider of foreign currency for Austria. After World War II most of the approximately eighty paper mills carried on extensive modernization so that the plants are now among the best equipped in Europe. Austrian paper is highly regarded in world markets because of its quality and low price. Exports are made to about eighty countries in Europe and overseas.
One of the biggest and most modern aluminum plants in Europe is located in Upper Austria. The nation imports bauxite but the electric power necessary for aluminum production is available in sufficient quantities within the country. The aluminum is partly processed in Austria and partly exported. Lead mined in Austria is processed in lead works and since 1954, zinc is treated at a modern electrolytic plant in Carinthia. The chemical industry, relatively unimportant prior to World War II now ranks third according to value and a number of its products have obtained leadership in world markets. Important basic chemicals such as sulphuric acid, carbonic disulfide, caustic soda, numerous coke works derivatives, polyvinylchloride and colors which formerly had to be imported are now produced in Austria. The most important chemical plants in Austria produce nitrogen and artificial fibers.
Textile production looks back on an old and proud tradition. In the Middle Ages linen made in the Austrian City of Vorarl-berg was a highly esteemed trade item. After mechanization started around 1750, textile factories were concentrated in the farthest west of Austria in Vorarlberg, and in the east in Vienna and Lower Austria. Today 76,000 workers are employed by the textile industry, the largest single unit of industry employment. Production is distinguished by its variety and high quality and has an excellent reputation throughout the world. Embroideries, an Austrian specialty, are produced mainly in Vorarlberg. The Austrian clothing industry has reached ten times the capacity of pre-war times. Although exports were faced with the loss of eastern European markets and high customs rates of Great Britian, the biggest pre-war customer, creations of Vienna — jersey dresses, embroidered and lace adorned blouses, knitted suits and sportswear are now well received abroad.
Old Austria had long been famous for her skilled artisans such as stone cutters, goldsmiths, armourers, coach builders and purple dyers who found ample opportunities at the splendor-loving court of the Haps-burgs. The rich burghers followed suit in the adornment of their houses and furniture. At present there are still 150,000 tradesmen enterprises operating, among them 85,000 trade masters who work without assistants or apprentices in one-man operations. Their handicraft products include precious porcelain, special potteries, quality glass goods, costume jewelry, rhinestones, Christmas tree ornaments, wood sculpture, lace for doilies and bedspreads and petit point tapestry. Approximately
half of the petit point exports of tapestry such as handbags, powder compacts, boxes and book covers go to the United States.
Austrian foreign trade was zero at the end of World War II. Trade relations with other countries had to be reactivated from the very beginning. At first it. was only possible to conclude barter agreements, later on clearing agreements, and, finally, Austria’s joining of the European Payment Union made it possible to boost foreign trade on the basis of multi-lateral settlements.
Exports Increase
Exports are now much more than in 1937. In the first post-war years imports were preponderantly foreign relief consignments, which made up approximately 88% of total imports in 1945 and 1946. In 1954 the share of relief deliveries had shrunk to 3% and since no longer play a part in the Austrian foreign trade balance. Until 1953 imports remained at a low level. This can be traced in part to changes in the structure of the Austrian economy.
Since 1937, Austria had enlarged important basic industries such as mining, water power, oil, iron and steel and chemicals, and developed a number of new productions which made the country less dependent on imports. Agricultural production gave the country a higher degree of self-sufficiency than prior to World War II. The heavy rise in the import volume after 1953 shows that Austrian business will import large quantities in good times, if foreign trade, as is the case, is made easier.
Under the influence of world political tension decisive changes have taken place in the geographical set-up of Austrian foreign trade. The nation’s joining of international economic organizations led to closer ties with Western Europe. In 1955, 66% of imports and 65% of exports came from and went to Western European countries, while in 1937 it had been only 40% and 52% respectively.
The share of Eastern Europe in Austrian imports has declined from 32% to 9%, and in exports from 28% to 10%. Wood, iron, steel and paper have always been the most important export goods. While their share was 27% of total exports in 1937, in 1955 it was over 42%. Other important Austrian exports are textiles, machines, chemical products, metal goods, products of fashion and arts and crafts, glasswares, vehicles, aluminum, and electric current.
In 1937 Germany was the foremost trading partner of Austria with a share of 15% and 16% in exports and imports. Italy, Hungary and Czechoslovakia were close seconds. West Germany is now by far Austria’s biggest trading partner, while Hungary and Czechoslovakia have nearly fallen off completely. In 1955, over 47% of Austrian imports and over 45% of all Austrian exports came from and went to West Germany, Italy and Great Britain. A pronounced increase is taking place in trade between the United States and Austria. Austrian imports of American products in 1956 represented a value of 125 million dollars as compared with only 37 million
dollars two years before. During the same period, Austrian exports to the United States rose from a value of 28 to 44 million dollars.
In October 1957, the Austrian Cabinet approved a report on a Conference of the Council of Ministers of the seventeen OEEC countries at which it had been decided to form a European Free Trade Area and to coordinate timing with the establishment of a European Economic Community consisting of the Common Market of the Coal-Steel Community countries. The unanimous approval of this report by the Cabinet in Vienna means that Austria will join, with the full privileges and obligations of membership, the Free Trade Area embracing a population of 285 millions, and involving the prospective duty-free interchange of goods over a large portion of the European Continent. The Free Trade Area is to begin to function simultaneously with the European Economic Community, and the same dates will apply for customs reductions throughout the territory of the Free Trade Area. The first of the duty reductions is scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 1959 and they will be completed in three stages within 12 to 15 years.
Austria is modernizing its transportation system in order to improve its position as an important transit route for trade through and to Central Europe, as well as to encourage an expansion of its already important tourist income.
There are approximately 3,740 miles of railways now in operation of which about 900 miles are electrified. More than 50% of the traffic carried, however, moves over these electrified lines and the country’s electrification program is moving steadily ahead.
A twelve to fifteen year highway construction program estimated to cost in the neighborhood of $650 million, also, has been underway since 1954. In addition an ‘autobahn’ connecting Vienna and Salzburg, also is under construction. This project is estimated to cost $160 million.
Austria has no seaports. The Danube, therefore, is the nation’s major waterway for moving bulk imports and exports into and out of the country. The Danube Shipping Company, which is the largest carrier on the river, was returned to Austria in accordance with the terms of the State Treaty, but its current fleet, is only about half its pre-war size.
During the occupation Austria was forbidden to own or operate an airline but plans to inaugurate service are now imminent. Every day Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers touch down at Vienna’s Airport, it is a one-day flight from New York via Frankfort, Germany. By ship the same trip would take from five to nine days to LeHavre, France, and then about 28 hours more by train to Vienna.
Of Austria’s total population of about 7.1 million, 1.5 million work in agriculture and forestry with 2.6 million engaged in industry and trade. Three-fourths of all Austrians live in eight provinces and one-fourth live in the ninth province in the Federal Capital of Vienna. Each of the nine provinces has its own autonomous life. The Austrian land-