Page T-4
t»/vtv AMERICAN
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
AROUND THE WORLD AIR LINE EXHIBITS “WORLD” AT WORLD’S FAIR
It’s the World’s Fair, so what more appropriate exhibit for a Round the World Air Line could there be than one of the world itself?
The illustration shows the Pan American exhibit at the Brussels World’s Fair, the only exhibit by a transportation company and one of only six sponsored by U. S. companies in their own individual pavilions.
The globe is 52 feet in diameter, constructed of vinyl-coated, ocean blue colored, nylon fabric. It is supported by air pressure, supplied by blowers which keep the plastic ball inflated.
The process is similar to that of supercharging the atmosphere within the cabin of a high altitude airplane, but with the difference that in this case it is to keep the structure in position, instead of for passenger comfort, and in addition the pressure differential is not as great.
Visitors enter through a revolving door which is also a simple air lock—to hold pressure within the globe.
Theme of the exhibit is world travel in the Jet Age.
The darkened interior is a planetarium, set up to show the summer sky at the latitude of Brussels, and to produce sunset and twilight effects and moving clouds.
The demonstration includes also a motion picture presentation showing how successive advances in transportation have shrunk world travel times—from Magellan’s journey to the Jet Clippers.
After viewing the demonstration inside, visitors will leave through another revolving door leading to a walkway “around the world,” for a close inspection of the map showing land masses, oceans and seas, the routes of Pan American, and the 143 cities served by the Flying Clippers. Mileage and flight time scales will make it possible for them to estimate the approximate flight time from their homes to any place on earth —which will be less than 24 hours when the Jet Clippers are in service throughout the world.
The Pan American globe for the World’s Fair was manufactured by the Irving Air Chute Company of Lexington, Kentucky, using fabric supplied by the U. S. Rubber Company. This fabric is completely opaque to permit the use of planetarium effects worked out with the cooperation of the staff of the Hayden Planetarium and Spitz Laboratories at Yorklyn, Delaware.
Since the pressure within the globe is greater than atmospheric pressure outside, it is necessary for visitors to enter and leave through the revolving door “air locks.” However, the differential is so slight that there is no waiting period for entering or leaving, nor is there any possibility of discomfort. In fact, the half-inch of pressure (measured by manometer) required to keep the walls of the globe firm is not sufficient to be detected by the senses, and visitors will not be aware of it unless they have been told.
PAN AMERICAN WORLD—This inflated globe of the world houses the Pan American exhibit at the Brussels World's Fair. Walkway, above, permits visitors to get closeup of the continents, islands and oceans.
It's necessary to
RECONFIRM YOUR RESERVATION for
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
There is no charge for WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER, so your "subscription" doesn't expire automatically. Instead, from time to time, we ask you to renew your request for free listing.
A reply card has been inserted with each copy of this issue mailed to addresses in the U.S. (Readers overseas, who receive WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER from overseas offices of PAA may ignore this notice). Use the card to request renewal. If the card gets lost send a note on a post card, asking that your name be retained on the World Airways Teacher list, to
Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N.Y.