Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO AUSTRIA
The route to Vienna is from Philadelphia-New York-Boston via Shannon, London, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt, to Vienna. (See map.) In a Super-6 Clipper the elapsed time, even with the several stops on this route, is less than 24 hours. Introduction of Jet Clippers will reduce travel time still more.
For a trip to Austria from the West Coast of the United States to Austria, the Polar route may be used. In this case, we proceed from Los Angeles-San Francisco-Portland-Seattle via the Great Circle course across Canada as far north as Frobisher Bay in the Northwest Territories, where there will be a fuel stop, and then, continuing on the Great Circle, to London. There we change planes to continue the journey to Vienna.
In either case, we’ll start by considting an agent at a Pan American ticket office, or a travel agent, to get the latest information on flight schedules, select the flight which best suits our plans and make reservations on it.
Next we’ll check the governmental requirements. We find that we’ll need passports for travel to Austria. It’s best to apply a month to six weeks ahead of time, although it is possible to get the passport in less time in an emergency. The application may be filed at the Department of State in Washington, at the Department’s Passport Agency in Miami, New York or San Francisco, or at the office— of the Clerk of a Federal Court, in other cities.
Proof of birth is the basic evidence we have to supply to support the passport application — that means a birth certificate, or an affidavit of birth. For one who is a naturalized citizen, the evidence of naturalization is presented, of course. We need passport pictures, two of them, and we need a friend of at least two years acquaintance to go along as a witness when the application is filed. Finally, there is a fee of $10 to be paid.
Austria does not require a visa. (The visa is a notation on the passport by a representative of the country to be visited that we have given notice of our intention to make such a visit, and have permission to do so.)
Austria has no restrictions as to the amount of dollars that we may take into the country,
but there is a restriction on their own currency — we may carry in, or take out, no more than 10,000 Austrian schillings. (The schilling is worth about four cents.)
The only other restriction has to do with the amount of tobacco and liquor which may be taken into Austria — 400 cigarettes or 80 cigars, and 1 bottle of wine or liquor.
Another item of preparation for the trip to Austria is concerned with wardrobe. In the Pan American travel guide “New Horizons”, we find this suggestion: “Take with you about the same clothes required for corresponding seasons in New York, but warm clothes are needed for the Alpine evenings, and good strong shoes always”. New Horizons recommends that if we intend to visit the provinces, even if we do not expect to do any skiing, that we go supplied with heavy slacks or ski trousers. For Vienna, and for such places as Salzburg, we may want to have formal evening clothes, especially if we expect to attend the opera. At resort hotels, formal evening clothes frequently are worn, but this is not a “must”, especially for men.
In general, we’ll endeavor to keep the wardrobe simple. The baggage allowance of 66 pounds first class, or 44 pounds on Tourist or Economy Class, which may be carried free, is sufficient for essentials, but doesn’t lend itself to carrying a lot of things which might be wanted. And it is much easier to travel light, with only the clothing and personal articles which are sure to be used.
Another important item in the planning is learning all we can about Austria. Ability to speak German will be very helpful, and the traveler who has a knowledge of German will do well to brush up before going to Austria. However, the non-speaker need not be concerned about inability to use German, as English is spoken by so many Austrians that there is no real language barrier.
But it is of utmost importance to read books about Austria, see motion pictures, and talk with persons who have lived in Austria, if that is possible. The material in the succeeding pages of this unit has been selected to supply such information. Knowing some-
thing of the country ahead of time, especially the achievements of which its people are justly proud, such as its contributions in the fields of music, literature and medicine, will enable us to make more rapid progress in getting acquainted with the people we’ll meet.
And a knowledge of the problems Austrians have faced in some turbulent periods of history will enable us better to understand what we find when we get there.
When we have completed this part of our preparation, we are ready to start our trip. Not that we’ll ever really complete that part of the preparation which consists of learning about the country, for that will go on during our trip, and after we return.
But we acquire as much background as possible, and while we’re still at it, the day arrives for departure.
Arriving in New York, we check in at the Air Line Terminal on New York’s East Side, go by limousine to the International Airport at Idlewild in Jamaica and wait there for the announcement of our flight.
There it is, we’ll board our Flying Clipper. An agent checks us through the gate, we walk down the ramp to the airplane and are welcomed aboard by the Stewardess.
The next few hours pass all too swiftly. A little reading, a little conversation, a delicious dinner, more conversation.
Twilight comes outside, then darkness, and despite a desire to remain awake to be aware of what is going on, we lean back and sleep our way across the Atlantic. Morning arrives, and after breakfast aboard the airplane we land at Shannon. Then, in a quick succession of shorter flights we continue to London, Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Munich, and then Vienna.
Flying to Austria within the space of a single day we’ll have a feeling of nearness after we arrive, and will retain that impression after we get back home. The same is true of travel to other countries in all parts of the world, presenting to us not only an opportunity to know our world neighbors better, but our obligations to try to understand them and help them understand us.