Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
AUDIO VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
FARMER OF AUSTRIA —16 min. sound, black and white. Churchill Wexler Film Productions, 801 No. Seward St., Los Angeles 38, Calif.
This film tells the story of the Eggers and their nine children, who are farmers in the Alpine country of Southern Austria. We are shown the harvest and other farm activities in which all the members of the family participate. We see Mrs. Eggers preparing the large noon meal of typical Austrian dishes. We go with the Eggers for a visit to the horse market, we see sheep shearing and lumbering. The everyday life of the village is depicted—a funeral at the 16th century church—the children’s school in session, a village dance. This film portrays a remarkable example of cooperative family enterprise, reminiscent of our own country at the turn of the century when farms were small and families large, work days long and machines scarce.
THE WINGS OF SONG - 15 min. sound, black and white. Brandon Films, Inc., 200 West 57th St., New York City.
Produced under the auspices of the Austrian Ministry of Education. A presentation of the Vienna Choir Boys. Includes views of Vienna, depicting scenes and the atmosphere of Vienna in excellent photography. The choir is heard in church and the works included are Schubert’s “Horch, Horch” and “Serenade”, Mozart’s “Minuet in E Flat Major”, Brahms “Lullaby”, Her-beck’s “Puerti Concinite”. There is a slight boy-girl plot which makes the film visually interesting, for there is no accompanying narration.
WINGS TO AUSTRIA - 27 min. sound, color. Ideal Pictures Corp., 58 East South Water Street, Chicago 1, 111.
Produced under the auspices of Pan-American World Airways, this film presents an unusual picture of Austria, a lovely country, full of gracious living and lovely music. Among the scenes depicted are — the music festival at Salzburg, a peasant wedding in Carinthia, folk-dancing in Steiermark, skiing in Arlberg, the world’s ski capital. There are many close-ups of scenes in Vienna, stressing its gaiety and cultural life, the streets, the people, the coffee-houses so typical of their way of life. The accompanying waltz music highlights the elegance, the gaiety, and the cultural setting. VIENNA TODAY —27 min. sound, black and white. McGraw Hill Text-Film Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York City. Produced by the March of Time for television. In this film life in Vienna is depicted from several angles — scenes of family life, the opera, social life and business. Included also is a survey of the recently ended four-power occupation by Russian, British, French and American troops.
AUSTRIA —17 min. sound, black and white. U. S. Department of the Army, Military District, Washington 25, D.C.
This film presents a background study of Austria’s history and current social, economic and political status. It was produced by the U. S. Army, to interpret the role of Austria in the cold war against communism. AUSTRIAN FOLK SONGS-12 min. sound, black and white. Cultural Affairs Section, Austrian Consulate General, Room 454, 527 Lexington Avenue, New York 17, New York.
Austrian folk songs and folk music, costumes and dances, scenes from everyday life of Austrian villagers.
MELODIOUS AUSTRIA-36 min. sound, black and white. Cultural Affairs Section, Austrian Consulate General, Room 454, 527 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N. Y. The film shows the places where Austria’s great composers lived and the landscape that inspired their music.
FROM THE GLACIERS TO LAKE CONSTANCE—15 min. sound, black and white. Alsher Films, 1311 19th St. N. W., Washington, D.C.
Includes scenes in the Austrian Alps, Austrian farm lands, and Austrian villages. There are also close-ups of the Vienna Burgtheater.
THIS IS AUSTRIA - 22 min. sound, black and white. E. J. Mauthner, P.O. Box 231 Cathedral Station, New York 25, N. Y.
A documentary about post-war Austria, touching on its geography, economy and folk-lore.
WESTERN AUSTRIA-40 min. silent, color. E. D. Marthole, 8855 Lincolnwoocl Drive, Evanston, 111.
The titles on this silent film are in English, with some German words. There are scenes of the daily life in Salzburg, Bad Sachi, Hallstadt, Grossglockner, Innsbruck, and other famous regions.
YOUNG CITY —50 min. sound, black and white. E. J. Mautner, P.O. Box 231, Cathedral Station, New York 25, N. Y.
A documentary about the care and education of children in post-war Vienna, from birth, through youth and adolescence. VIENNA ART TREASURES-40 min. sound, color. National Film Board of Canada, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York City. Close-ups of 19 paintings are shown from the group from the art museums of Vienna, which toured the United States in 1950. The commentary written by Thomas Craven is narrated by Basil Rathbone. BEAUTIFUL BLUE DANUBE-12 min. sound, black and white. Audio-Master Corp., 341 Madison Ave., New York City. Produced by Berna Films, Vienna. The waltz by Johann Strauss played by the Vienna Symphonic Orchestra, Robert Stoltz conducting. The dancers of the Vienna State Ballet also perform. —
Editor’s Note: Also available from Audio-Masters Corporation, and produced by Berna Films, Vienna, are the following compositions of Johann Strauss, played by the Vienna Symphony Orchestra:
“Fledermaus Overture”, “Gypsy Baron”, “Polkas”. In “Polkas” the Vienna States Opera Ballet and the prima ballerina, Julia Drapei, also perform.
The following 10 min. sound, black and white films, featuring the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, were produced by Eugene Sharin and are available from Sterling Films, Inc., 316 West 57th Street, New York City:
Egmont Overture, Ein Kleine Nachtmusik, Emperor Waltz, Fifth Symphony, Music of the Spheres, Overture to Orpheus in Hades, Rosamunde, Serenata, Nocuurna, Tales from the Vienna Woods, Tannheuser, Unfinished Symphony, Vienna Blood.
Sterling Films has also made available the following 15 min. sound films, in black and white, featuring the Vienna Boys Choir: Serenade, The Family Album, The Big Tent, Blue Danube, How to Waltz, Hand-man’s Hour, Tutti Frutti.
Film Strips
LIVING IN CENTRAL EUROPE, AUSTRIA AND SWITZERLAND-61 frames, silent with captions. Color. Society for Visual Education (S.V.E.), 1345 West Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
One of the Living in Central and Southern European Series, produced in cooperation with Rand McNally & Co. This filmstrip is designed to present a clear, motivated, organized and comprehensive explanation of how people live in this region. The maps and color photographs of real people and places shows life in the mountains — emphasizing farming, herding, manufacturing and transportation.
Records
German Folk Songs (FW 6843)
Folkways Records, 117 W. 46th St., NYC, 33-1/3 rpm longplay record.
In the hamlets and mountains of Vienna, Salzburg, and what was once the old Austrian empire, the people still sing in the universal language of love, harvest, birth, courtship, marriage and work. The tunes (and the instruments used to accompany the singing and dancing) are centuries old and no doubt were the inspiration for many a composition by Mozart, Strauss and the other music masters from these regions.
A typical example is a mountain courtship song from lower Austria in this Folkways record. The story concerns a widower who goes courting but the heart of the girl is faithful and has a lock and only one young boy has the key to it.
For further information:
Austrian Chamber of Commerce of U.S. — 165 W. 46th Street — New York City Austrian Consulate General —
31 E. 69th Street — New York City Austrian Information Service —
31 E. 69th Street — New York City Austrian State Tourist Department —
48 E. 48th Street — New York City Austrian Institute Inc. — 165 W. 46th Street — New York City
Austrian State Travel Department —
11 E. 52nd Street — New York City (also Chicago, 111.; Portland, Oregon) Lower Austrian Traveling Agency —
Vienna — Austria