Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
AUSTRIA
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Austria called a
land of culture and charm?
A.	Reasons for Selection:
1.	Austria has offered so much to the culture of the world.
2.	Tourist traffic to Austria is increasing steadily.
3.	Austria is often studied as a country in contrast to one in the Mediterranean region.
4.	A study of the changes in the status of countries in Europe over many years would include the study of Austria.
5.	There has been much in recent news of the rebuilding and rehabilitation that has been going on in Austria.
6.	Studies of well known compositions in music appreciation would certainly include composers born in Austria.
7.	Many students may have in their families someone who spent some time in Austria as a member of the occupation army.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	APPROACH:
1.	Many of the composers studied in school were born in Austria. Students should be interested in knowing more about the land from which such beautiful music came.
2.	Discussion of summer events around the world would bring mention of the Salzburg Festival in Austria.
3.	A study of changes which have taken place in Europe since World War II would include a story of Austria.
4.	With advanced students an interest could be stimulated from the literature which has come from Austria.
5.	A review of famous scenic spots in Europe would include many from Austria.
6.	Many good films for use in schools, listed in this issue, are available and would make a good motivation.
7.	Reading and discussing some books mentioned in the Bibliography would also stimulate interest.
B.	SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	Who were the many leaders in Austrian history and how did they influence the stands Austria took in various times of struggle?
2.	What is Austria’s present day relationship with the countries of Europe and with the nations in other parts of the world?
3.	What has Austria contributed to the culture of the world?
4.	Why have so many cities and regions of Austria become familiar to everyone?
5.	How has the airplane changed the tourist industry in Austria?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER:
1.	Music:—is one of the most important phases of this unit for Vienna is known as the music capital of the world; music is the most highly developed branch of the arts in Austria; noted for folk songs, religious songs, minnesingers; Fritz Kreisler* violinist; Arthur Schnabel, pianist; Haydn, Mozart, Brahms, Fux, Schubert, Bruckner, Mahler, Wolf, Schoenberg, Berg; Beethoven, Vienna’s most famous adopted son; Johann Strauss, the Waltz King; Vienna Choir Boys, leading performers of religious music; Salzburg festival; Salzburg, home of Mozart; Vienna Philharmonic and Symphony; State Opera; Volksopera; Weiner Festwochen, Spring Music Festival; Vienna Music Festival.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words:—many of Austrian derivation such as goulash and strudel.
b.	Literature: — here, again, Austria ranks high in its list of contributors; Grillparzer, Stifter, Rosegger, von Hofmannsthal; Max Reinhardt, the producer; Kafka, Zweig; Schnitzler’s plays; Werfel, famous for many novels among them “Song of Bernadette”; the poet, Rilke; Freud; Austrian National Library one of the largest in the world.
c.	Oral and Written Communication: —most of the time on this unit should be spent in reading, writing and talking about the great musicians, writers and artists; planning a trip to the famous scenic spots in Austria; debating some of the stands taken by Austrian leaders at various times in world history.
3.	Art:—here, too, Austria ranks high in its concern for the art of the world; Albertina Museum; National Museum of Fine Arts; Belvedere Picture Gallery; work on antique, leather goods, petit point, crystal, glassware, pottery, knitwear; Van der Null, Austrian architect; St. Stephen’s Cathedral; Hofburg Palace.
4.	Health: — in the field of medicine Austria stands high among the nations of the world; von Auenbrugger, percussion method of diagnosis; Sammel-weiss, puerperal fever; Freud, well known psychoanalyst; famous for skiing, often called a “skier’s paradise”; famous “shoots” for chamois, partridges and black grouse; fishing; food known all over, such as, Weiner Schnitzel, goulash, strudel; Bad Ga-stein, famous “cure” resort.
5.	Social Studies:—history of the country; Dr. Theodore Korner, Scharf, Francis Joseph, Dollfuss, Metternich, Pinter-
man, Hurdes; Vienna, capital; Barva-rian Alps, Brenner Pass; Danube, Mur and Drau rivers; Lake Neusiedler; cities of Graz, Linz, Salzburg, Innsbruck, Weiner Neustadt; Hapsburg Empire; Occupation Regime; Third Reich; agriculture, forestry, tourism, main industries; rye, oats, wheat; manufacture of musical instruments, pottery, glass; 90% of people German speaking; Federal republic, 9 provinces, 2 houses of parliament, president elected every six years; now member of United Nations; land locked country, 90% mountainous; metallurgical and engineering; education compulsory 6-14 years of age; University of Vienna; 62 countries represented in International Atomic Energy Party with permanent headquarters in Vienna.
6.	Mathematics: — 6 hours later than Eastern Standard Time; 18 hours by plane, 5-9 days by ship; schilling, principal monetary unit; time line showing changes in governments; graphs comparing trade pre-war and today; graphs showing population shifts and production trends.
7.	It is said that every second tree is a spruce; sub-alpine climate; advances in medicine; work of Freud.
B.	SKILLS:—outlining information on the lives of famous artists and speaking and writing from these outlines would be helpful in this unit.
C.	ATTITUDES, INTERESTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS:
1.	To develop an appreciation of the culture that has come from Austria.
2.	To stimulate an interest in learning more about the music and literature of the world.
3.	To develop an understanding of the problems of nations that have been caught in the whirlpool of world events.
4.	To appreciate the courage required by inhabitants of a nation who must rebuild after destruction.
5.	To appreciate the reverence of Austrian people for the arts and artists.
6.	To become interested in learning more about the beautiful music of Austrian composers.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A. THINGS TO DO:
1.	Collect records of the great musical selections. Play them and discuss them.
2.	Write biographies of some of the great composers.
3.	Display articles made in Austria.
4.	Post items of current news relating to Austria.
5.	Trace the history of Austria in chart form.
6.	List the names of well known people from Austria and the part each played in its history.
7.	Show movies and strip films on Austria.