Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Frederick the Bellicose. Leopold V was the emperor who held the English king, Richard the Lion Hearted, returning from the third crusade, prisoner in the castle of Durnstein until his ransom was paid.
The House of Hapsburg ruled Austria for some six centuries from 1276 to 1918. The Hapsburgs eventually extended their empire to include the area from Naples to the North Sea, from Hungary to Portugal, and even across the Atlantic Ocean to embrace the Spanish possessions in the New World. That was Austria’s greatest hour. There was a wave of material prosperity, a burst of creative energy. Palaces, mansions, churches rose throughout the country 'in that opulent style known today as “baroque.”
Baroque means, applied to art and architecture of that time, a greater freedom of form and lavish decoration in contrast with the classical restraint of the Renaissance. The baroque took on a warm and theatrical quality. The vertical Gothic style with its ascending vaults and mystic aspirations was rejected. Instead there was a more worldly interest in palatial horizontal lines, grandiose cupolas, sweeping stairways, colonnades, fountains, and vast open squares, designed to set off buildings to maximum advantages.
The influence of the Italians Bernini and Barromini was indeed evident. Vienna’s National Library, built by Fischer von Erlach in about 1726, is a magnificent example of baroque architecture. Its main hall is considered one of the most beautiful library rooms in the world. Another is the Karlskirche in Vienna. The church combines the column of Trajan with a classic Roman doorway and the Renaissance cupola of St. Peter’s, thus uniting the motifs of pagan and Christian Rome.
Baroque is more than palaces and
churches. It has penetrated deeply into Austrian life. It is in the stone cherubs and nymphs of fountains, in curved furniture, in the dazzling spectacle of the opera, even in the creations of the Austrian sugar baker. For Austrians love the spectacular and the joys of life.
The best and the worst of baroque exist side by side in Schonbrunn, the palace designed by Fischer for the Hapsburgs. Completed in 1750, Schonbrunn had no less than 1400 rooms ready for its occupant, the Empress Maria Theresa, that great woman who reorganized the University of Vienna, made the Augarten porcelain factory a state institution, balanced the Imperial budget, founded the stock exchange, encouraged the’ arts, and the mother of sixteen children, including the ill-fated Marie Antoinette.
In 1918, the last of the Hapsburg emperors, Karl, abdicated, and the following day the Austrian Republic was born. The rest is history. In 1938, Hitler integrated Austria with Germany. After the liberation from the Germans, in April 1945, Austria was divided into four occupation zones — British, French, Russian, and American — and it was not until 1956 that all the armies of the four powers pulled out and Austria was again a free and independent country.
Achievements of Austria
Austria is a treasure house of the arts. The creative urge found in Austria an auspicious climate. And then there is the reverence of the people in general for those who can create beauty, encourage culture, or stand out as the leaders of some intellectual field.
In Austria, the artist always ranks high. What other countries say with words, the Austrians say with music. The Hapsburg court orchestra was the first in Europe. The
ballet was typical of the spectacle so dear to all. The emperors’ love for music set the stage for Austria’s golden age in that field.
Gluck’s opera, Orpheus and Eurydice, was played for the first time at the court theater in 1762. Gluck was followed by Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Brahms, Johann Strauss, Bruckner, Hugo Wolf, Gustav Mahler, Alban Berg, and Schonberg and many others outstanding in the musical life of Vienna. Beethoven, Vienna’s most famous adopted son, realized his genius in a stormy career which coincided with the first public concerts. One evening’s program would include often four entire symphonies of Beethoven.
In 1825 was born a boy who set the whole world a-whirling to his intoxicating rhythms — Johann Strauss, the Waltz King. Never has a composer so completely captured the taste and spirit of his era. At the time of Strauss’ death in 1899, it was estimated that one quarter of Vienna danced nightly to the lilting strains of his waltzes. The others were probably at the theater listening to Die Fledermaus, The Gypsy Baron, or another of Johann’s light operas. Today in Vienna as in other countries you can hear Johann’s successors, Franz Lehar and Oscar Strauss filling your ears with The Merry Widow, The Chocolate Soldier and others.
And then when you hear the sweet voices of the Vienna Boys Choir you have taken possession of a part of the Hapsburg heritage. The boys’ choirs have a distinguished history. They were already known as far back as 1498, at the time of Maximilian I, as part of the Hapsburgs’ Palace Orchestra in the Hofburg. Haydn and Schubert began their careers as Vienna Choir Boys.
Today, the boys still are trained from an early age, to sing to the glory of God, and their singing and their personal charm have captivated audiences throughout the world.
Austria stands out as a country of great writers. Among these one can mention men like Arthur Schnitzler, Franz Kafka, Stefan Zweig, Franz Werfel, and Rainer Maria Rilke. Schnitzler’s plays, capturing the dreamy, romantic quality of life and love in Vienna, have been presented in New York, made into movies, and reprinted in many anthologies. Stefan Zweig was the author of numerous psychoanalytical novels and historical studies. Kafka’s book, “The Trial,” is a haunting study of man as the victim of police state bureaucracy. Franz Werfel, a refugee from the Nazis when they occupied Austria, and again when they marched into France in 1940, wrote several inspiring books including “The Song of Bernadette.” The finest Austrian poet is Rilke, a lyrical genius who sought to rescue himself and his fellow men from what he considered the dehumanizing effects of materialism. His “Sonnets to Orpheus” are an ecstatic appeal to mankind to detach itself from the tyranny of matter.
In the field of medicine, Austria stands high among the nations of the world. It was an Austrian, Leopold von Auenbrugger, who invented the technique used by your doctor when he thumps your chest. He instituted the percussion method of diagnosis, the tapping of the chest universally applied in medicine today.
Innsbruck—Maria Theresian Strasse showing monument in the center.