Page T-2
PAN AMERICAN
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1958, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 2S-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
QUIZ CONTEST REPORT
Last fall World Airways Teacher suggested that you “run your own quiz contest” based on thirty years of international air transportation, gave you a short list of questions for such a quiz and a topic for a 100-worcl statement: “Why do you think it is important for us to have international air transportation.”
Also, a promise was made that the best 25 entries received would be awarded Edwin C. Musick medals by Miss Felicity Buranelli, sponsor of the Medal of the Month Club.
There was a gratifying response, and the twenty-five medals now have been awarded. For a sample of statements about the importance of international air transportation, here is the essay in miniature submitted by Ruth Brick, age 8, grade 2, of Norwood, N. J.:
“Planes Are Important”
There is more water than land as you can see on a globe. Ships move slowly. Airplanes fly much faster, and can go to all parts of the world.
In case people are ill or hurt, planes may save them. Medicines can be rushed where they are needed.
Planes make it easier to visit people in other lands. We can make more friends this way, too. Toys are flown to us from Japan; watches from Switzerland; animals for the zoos from Africa; and pineapples from Hawaii. We send clothing, food and medicine in CARE packages.
Some day we may trade with people on other planets by using faster and faster airplanes called satellites.
Note: Bunny Brick, also known as “Brick-aero” first flew when she was 3 weeks old, as a passenger in an Aeronca Chief, made her first air line flight at 4 years of age, unaccompanied, on a trip from New York City to Tampa, upon which occasion she assisted other passengers by advising them how to fasten their seat belts. Bunny’s Mother, Mrs. Kay Brick, is a teacher and a licensed pilot.
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER___________
HIS WIFE COLLECTS PEOPLE
William D. Boutwell, who is Editor of the Teen Age Book Club (“TAB”) is an educational traveler of note, and recently, in his regular department “What’s Happening in Education?” in the National Parent-Teacher, Mr. Boutwell reported on his travels.
Under the heading “My Wife Collects People,” he told how Mrs. Boutwell gets acquainted with a Royal Danish naval officer, with the result that the Boutwells enjoy a three-hour Danish lunch at the officer’s suburban home. “Collecting” a British Canon leads to an invitation to tea at Amen Court in London. And so on.
Mr. Boutwell’s report also listed the answers to a number of questions which are not always discussed in the guide books, and we asked him and Mrs. Eva H. Grant, the Editor of the National Parent-Teacher, if they wouldn’t share his findings in these matters with the readers of World Airways Teacher. They graciously agreed, so go along with Mr. Boutwell:
“Now a veteran of European travel (any trip more than one makes you a veteran) I am frequently asked questions ranging from ‘Is it safe to drink the water?’ to ‘Don’t you find the money confusing?’ Let’s take a few of these:
“Is it safe to dritik the water?
“I like water and I drank it from Oslo to Rome. Delicious water. No bad after-effects. I’ve been told to avoid water in remote towns, but I haven’t been in any remote towns.
“I don’t speak anything but English. Will I be able to get along?”
“An illustration will serve here. Into our Rome hotel restaurant came an American with his five-year-old daughter. In studied school-learned Italian he asked the head-waiter for a table. ‘What did you say, Daddy? What did you say?’ demanded his young daughter. The American sighed, ‘I wish I knew, baby.’
“He needn’t have struggled. The head-waiter spoke English. Nearly all Europeans serving travelers speak English. Throughout Europe English has become the standard second language taught in the schools. And you yourself will have fun picking up bits and pieces of a second, third, or fourth language.
“My only complete language failure came in a Paris left-bank restaurant when I tried to order steak medium-well done. I finally settled for filet of sole.
“Don’t you have to watch all the time to keep from being cheated?
“If I was cheated I am blissfully unaware of it. You’ll find the prices posted for everything — meals, hotels, merchandise. The prices mean what they say. Hotels and restaurants automatically add 15 per cent for service, so you don’t worry about tipping.
“Guidebooks warn you to expect to bargain in places like Florence’s straw market— an open air mart for leather, straw, and almost everything.
“Can you get rooms with bath?
“By now most Europeans know that the crazy Americans want a private bath. It costs more, but you can get it in most major cities. You will also find that life somehow
will go on without a private bath.
“Don’t you find the money confusing?
“Well, yes. I hope to live long enough to find myself changing dollars into uropes, a new all-European currency having exactly the same value as a dollar.
“At present all Europe except Britain uses the decimal system. That helps. You carry a handy money conversion chart. My wife goes window shopping with chart in hand. “Look,” she says. “Thirteen hundred lira. Imagine! That’s only two dollars.”
“Would you recommend going on one of these all-expense tours?
“I’ve never taken one, so I can’t say. They please many people. The tour operators do the worrying about details. Traveling with a tour, you may see much that you might otherwise miss.
“We have one rule: When we visit a city for the first time we always take the standard city bus tour. This introduces us to the city’s proudest sights and orients us to the street plan. After that we take regular buses and walk.
“Is it safe to walk around in European cities?
“Probably safer than in many American cities. My daughter, who is abroad now, tells me that an unaccompanied girl need have no worry, day or night, in the districts usually frequented by visitors.
“How much does a trip to Europe cost?
“Two people can go to Europe for a month or six weeks for about as much as it costs to buy a new American automobile. To your trans-Atlantic round-trip ticket add twenty-five to forty dollars a day spent in Europe.
“You will hear tourists say that it’s cheaper to go to Spain or Finland or Sicily. Maybe. Europe today, as far as I can discover, holds no discount travel bargains. You can expect to pay American rates for hotels and restaurant meals. You will find prices in most stores above those in major U.S. cities.
“But transportation can still be a bargain. London still charges only four pennies to ride a big red bus from St. Paul’s Cathedral across town to Buckingham Palace.
“Any final advice?
“Yes. If your plans include Britain, join the English-speaking Union before you go. Membership admits you to the warm hospitality and many services of the Dartmouth House headquarters in West End. Also to equally gracious centers in Oxford, Edinburgh, and elsewhere. E.S.U. is a club away from home—in many ways a better club than you’ll find at home.
“Another suggestion: Buy in the United States a special British tourist railroad ticket that takes you a thousand miles anywhere in Britain and Scotland for twenty dollars.
“Look into the festivals and special provisions for teachers and other groups. Many European countries now make it easy for you to meet your “opposite numbers.”
“Call at the tourist information headquarters. As a tourist you are currently Europe’s major source of precious U.S. dollars. The red carpet is out. Nearly every tourist information office will help you to enjoy more fully the particular delights of its native land.