BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
AUSTRIA
Page 9
scape is very varied and different folk costumes and folklore are the result.
People in Vorarlberg speak German with an Alemannic accent, similar to that in neighboring Switzerland, while all other Austrian provinces speak more or less Bavarian dialects. This province with its high mountains, green Alpine meadows and the famous Montafon cattle, is the most industrialized containing the Vorarlberg textile industry.
The fair at Dornbirn is the foremost European exhibition for textiles. Despite industrialization the people in Vorarlberg have not lost their ties to the soil and many workers own houses and farms, mainly just big enough to cover the demands of then-own families. Bregenz, the capital of Vorarlberg, with 20,000 inhabitants, is situated along the Bodensee and enjoys a wide view across the lake and across the invisible border to Switzerland and Bavaria. It is the seat of the provincial administrative authorities but the commercial center of the province is Feldkirch with 15,000 inhabitants, situated on the main line of the west-east European railway.
To reach the province of Tirol from Vorarlberg, one has to pass through the 6.2 mile long Arlberg tunnel, or across the Arlberg highway. The Arlberg is the center of attraction for many ski fans, its school of skiing having won international fame through the numerous Olympic masters trained there. Tirol as a whole enjoys international reputation for winter sports, especially its ski circus at Kitzbuehel, with its many cable railways and chair and ski lifts offering numerous opportunities for ski tours.
Tirol’s capital, Innsbruck, (95,000 inhabitants), is the crossroads for north-south and west-east traffic routes which have played an important part in European history for many hundreds of years and which are so important for European trade communications. Actually the eastern part of Tirol is separated from the rest of the province by land given to Italy as a result of World War I.
East of Tirol lies Salzburg province and the Mozart town of Salzburg with 103,000 inhabitants. It contains churches and palaces, built by Princes of the Church who were at the same time secular rulers. Festival House, partly built into the rock, with its famous opera performances, attracts an ever increasing number of visitors every year who also want to hear the music of Mozart and Beethoven in the Felsenreit-schule, the riding school of prince bishops built in the rock. Salzburg’s fame is founded not only in its capital but also on the fact that high in the Salzburg mountains one of the biggest hydro-electric power plants of Europe, Kaprun Dam, has been erected. A long tunnel has been blasted through the mountain and nature’s watershed reversed. The Moell River now sheds its waters towards the north into the power plant of Kaprun rather than toward the south as before.
The lake district of Salzkammergut is also well known as are winter sports facilities in the province. The name of both the town
and province is derived from the salt mines which are still worked.
From Salzburg across the Grossglockner Alpine highway or via the Tauern Railway lies Karnten (or Carinthia) the southernmost Austrian province boasting of a mild climate in its valleys and at the borders of its many lakes. The Austrian Riviera along the Woerthersee, close to the provincial capital of Klagenfurt (63,000 people) and along the Millstaettersee and the Os-siachersee are the popular goals of many tourists. The most important natural product of Karnten is wood, and the Carinthian Fair, held every summer in Klagenfurt, is the most important timber fair in Central Europe. Villach with 30,000 inhabitants, close to the Italian border is the commercial center of the province.
The Green Mark
Styria, called the Green Mark, is actually green to the eye because more than half of its area is woodland and one-quarter meadows and pastures. Timber and cattle play an important role in the province. The heavy-weight horses from the Ennstal are still widely used and could not be replaced by tractors in many parts of the Alps. Fattened Styrian fowl are a popular delicacy. The northern part of Styria is iron country. Graz with 266,000 inhabitants, is the second largest Austrian town and has attracted many pensioned workers due to its pretty countryside and low cost of living.
From Styria a lake district leads to Upper Austria. In that provincial plain agriculture has reached a high degree of intensity. Characteristic of the fertile farming country is the Kierkanthof, the imposing four cornered peasant house. The traditional farmers festival in Wells at summer’s end has become an important agricultural fair. Scythes and cutlery have been produced for many centuries in small iron forges in and around Steyr in Upper Austria. The famous armament factory in Steyr, which produced the Mannlicher rifle and carbine developed, between the two World Wars, into a large automobile and tractor factory. In the area of the provincial capital of Linz on the Danube live 185,000 people. The city has a large port and extensive workshops and industrial plants have been erected there.
The Danube flows through Upper, as well as Lower Austria, which is the nation’s granary. Nearly one-half of its area is covered with crops, fields, gardens and vineyards. Lower Austrian wines are highly esteemed. The province abounds in magnificent Baroque buildings, churches, monasteries and palaces. South of Vienna industrial plants manufacturing all kinds of products have been concentrated. Lower Austria is also the oil producing province. The oil derricks in the plain north of the Danube add a very characteristic detail to the countryside. There is also much winter sport activity in the province’s mountains.
Burgenland is the easternmost province, bordering on Lower Austria. It is also the youngest province because it had been a part of the Kingdom of Hungary up to the end of World War I. The province got its name from the many fortresses and castles
which had been built at the border of the Fannonian Plain as protection against assaults of many steppe nations coming from the east. Wide Neusiedler Lake, surrounded by a broad belt of reed grass and the home of rare birds, reminds one that East Europe begins there. In the provincial capital of Eisenstadt live 5,000 people. The famous composer Joseph Haydn is buried there. Burgenland produces vegetables, fruit and wine in large quantities.
The Federal Capital Vienna, once the capital of the Hapsburg Empire and residence of the emperor is surrounded by a wide region of woodland and meadows. Within the boundary of the town two hills rise which are covered with vineyards and the villages of the winegrowers have become suburbs. Old and new architecture mix in Vienna as there are Gothic spires and Baroque palaces.
In World War II Vienna suffered heavily from bombings and fighting. Today hardly any after-effects are noticeable. The Vienna State Opera has been reconstructed in its old splendor; the Burgtheater, the foremost German language theater in the world, has moved back to its traditional building; and the two houses of Parliament meet again in the renovated House of Parliament. Thousands of new and modern apartments have been built since the end of the war. Industrial plants in the Vienna suburbs which had suffered greatly during the war have been renovated and modernized.
Before World War II 41% of the foreign visitors in Austria came from East and Southeast Europe. After 1945 a complete change took place and there was no more visitors from these countries. Changes had to be made to appeal to tourists from the west and many hotels had to be rebuilt and renovated. Due to the post-war boom in tourism 1951/52 travelers equaled those in 1936/37. Marshall Plan Funds were used to increase facilities in city hotels, inns, spa hotels, Alpine hotels, private lodgings and youth hostels. In the year 1954/55, 57% of all tourists came from West Germany; 8.5% from Great Britain and Northern Ireland; 7% from the Netherlands; 6% from France; 4% from the United States; and 3.9% from Italy.
Teaching and learning have always been particularly encouraged by the Austrian state, the provinces and communities with schools dating back to the medieval monastic institutions at the turn of the Eleventh Century. Today there are 5,352 schools attended by 764,217 pupils between 6 and 14 years of age; and 407 advanced schools attended by 127,687 pupils. In addition there are 340 professional schools for the training of apprentices. The universities of Austria which engage in teaching as well as in research work, enjoy a century old tradition. There are ten universities and four art schools of university rank. The oldest, the University of Vienna was founded in 1365; the “newest” was founded in 1863. In the summer, international university courses afford possibilities for many young people of different nationalities and languages to meet each other during a sojourn in Austria.