BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
AUSTRIA
Page 5
Another great Austrian doctor was Ignaz Semmelweiss who discovered the nature and cause of deadly puerperal fever, thus saving the lives of many mothers in childbirth.
In psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud is the best known. His studies of hysteria and hypnotic therapy, encouraged his explorations into the unconscious and led to the technique known today as psychoanalysis, and the modern psychiatric treatment of mental illness. Freud’s influence on medicine, psychiatry, education, religion, philosophy, law, and literature has been felt throughout the world. In the University of Vienna’s hall of fame there is a statue in his honor. The inscription on the statue is a quotation from Oedipus of Sophocles: “Who divined the famed riddle and was a man most mighty.”
Vienna
Vienna, the capital of Austria, lifts its baroque silhouette above the plain of the Danube beneath the Kahlenberg heights and other wooded hills. Surrounded by the Vienna woods and delightful suburban villages like Grinzing, Sievering and Nussdorf, Vienna, with a population of nearly two million — or almost one-quarter of all the country’s inhabitants — is by far the largest city in Austria and one of the loveliest in the world.
Goethe called it “a conversation between mankind, art and nature, the link of today with yesterday and tomorrow.” The proof is there, modern schools, hospitals, and apartments rise beside the Gothic and baroque memorials of Austria’s past. The city and this small republic have a fascinating history.
Some people love Vienna because they consider it sweet and soft. Others love to wander along its squares, palaces and monuments of Hapsburg emperors. Others think of Vienna in terms of its main indoor attractions: opera and music, waltz and operettas.
In exploring Vienna, one finds that the Inner City is the vital square which includes Vienna’s greatest treasures of art and architecture, her leading hotels and best shops. Its main artery is the Karntner-strasse-Rotenturmstrasse. Half way down is St. Stephen’s Cathedral with its 448-foot steeple rising in the heart of Vienna. Finished in 1433, this masterpiece of Gothic architecture affords an interesting contrast with the twentieth century buildings which surround it.
By 1860, the old ramparts about the inner city had been replaced by the famous boulevard, the Ring-strasse.
The principal edifices on or near the Ring-strasse are the neo-Gothic Rathaus, with many statues and a tower 320 feet high; the two domed museums of natural history and of art, in Italian Renaissance style; the Votivkirche, one of the finest of modern Gothic churches; the parliament buildings, in Greek style; the palace of justice, the famous opera house and the Burgtheater; the Kiinstlerhaus, with permanent exhibitions of paintings, the Musik-verein, containing the Conservatory of Music and the Academy of Art.
Vienna has in its National Library one of the most beautiful reading rooms in the
world. The White Horses of Vienna have been internationally celebrated since the sixteenth century when Emperor Leopold I first bred them in the village of Lipizza near Trieste. In the Treasure Chamber of the Hofburg in Vienna can be seen the jewel-studded crown of the Holy Roman Emperors — more than a thousand years old — last worn in 1918. It is a reminder of Austria’s imperial past.
The Art Museum in Vienna now houses one of the world’s most important collections. There are great works by Velasquez, Rembrandt, Durer, Raphael, Rubens and other masters, including Brueghel, half of whose known paintings are in this gallery.
The art of cooking has achieved in
AUSTRIA'S
by Lou
The past half century has been a period of continual adjustment — political, economic, cultural and psychological, for the people of Austria.
Fifty years ago they formed the core of the powerful Hapsburg Empire, the second largest nation in Europe in size and the third largest in population.
Forty years ago, in 1918, that Empire was broken up and the First Austrian Republic came into existence. Overnight the Austrian people became citizens of a small country ranking nineteenth in size among the thirty-six European nations.
Twenty years ago Austria as a free nation disappeared entirely as a result of the Anchluss of the Third Reich.
Ten years ago, after the end of World War II, although the Second Austrian Republic had been proclaimed by the people, the nation was occupied by troops of the United States, the United Kingdom, The U.S.S.R. and France. During the last ten years the Occupation Regime has come to an end and today as a member of the United Nations and the European Council, Austria has taken a proud, although radically different, place among the nations of Europe and the World.
Located in an ’ insecure marginal area between east and west, before the Nineteenth Century Austria waged a number of wars to protect herself from eastern domination, culminating in the defeat of Turkish Armies at the gates of Vienna in 1863. This date marked the emergence of Austria as a great power. At the beginning of the Twentieth Century the Austro-Hungarian Empire covered 261,027 square miles and contained about fifty million people. Eight nations lived together and many languages were spoken. There were seventeen provinces, twenty diets and twenty-seven political parties.
In effect the Empire was an harmonious economic unit which was nearly self-sufficient in food and raw materials. In the east and southeast agriculture prevailed while industry was located in the west and north. The assassination of Francis Ferdinand, successor to the Austro-Hungarian throne, and his wife, by Serbian nationalists in Sarajevo on
Vienna its maximum expression. The huge, state-owned restaurant in the cellar of Vienna’s Town Hall, for example, has more than 240 items on its daily menu, and most of them are extraordinary. Internationally speaking, Austria’s two best known culinary contributions are Wiener Schnitzel and the Vienna sausage. The first is a delicate veal steak, dipped in egg and fried to a crisp, golden brown. The Vienna sausage, with a few modifications here, is an American institution — the hot dog. It is from Vienna, of course, that our Strudel came.
Yes, Vienna is a “conversation between mankind, art and nature, the link of today with yesterday and tomorrow” as Goethe put it.
ECONOMY
. Phillips
July 28, 1914 proved to be the spark that ignited the first World War.
On November 11, 1918 the last emperor of Austria abdicated and the multi-formed and multi-lingual empire was broken up into a number of small succession states. Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia and Rumania were created. What was left were the German-speaking parts of Austria, the former patrimonial dominions situated along the Danube and in the Alps. On November 12, 1918 the First Republic was proclaimed.
The new Republic was faced with great political and economic difficulties. In the economic field Austria suffered from the fact that she had lost the larger part of her natural resources as well as her markets. New borders with Hungary, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia were tightly closed. Food was scarce and the industrial products of Austrian factories could not reach former consumers. Instead of a large uniform economic area there were customs barriers and unsurmountable obstacles to trade. National jealousies ruined attempts at economic cooperation.
In 1922 Austria was granted a loan from the League of Nations which enabled her to consolidate her economy and stabilize her currency, but the world economic crisis of 1929 led ultimately to the breakdown of all Austrian banks. The nation was dragged into the whirlpool of political developments following Hitler’s rise to power in Germany.
Political antagonism finally resulted in civil war in 1934. Occupation by the Third Reich occurred in 1938. From 1938 on, Austria’s economy was integrated into Germany’s gigantic armament race. There was no Austria when World War II broke out in September 1939 but during the war the country was heavily bombed. In the last days of March 1945, Soviet troops crossed the Austro-Hungarian border from the east; American troops marched into Austria from the west; with the British coming from the South. A large part of Vienna was aflame and the majority of bridges across the Danube had been blown up by retreating German troops. Hunger and chaos ruled. A provisional government was formed in