BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
AUSTRIA
Page 7
In the Tirol, Lech, Austria.
of soil, rock streams and avalanches, and constitute an important water reservoir. They also influence tourism as the many health resorts in Austria surrounded by deep forests have great appeal. To prevent excessive cutting of wood certain restrictions of exports have been introduced and afforestation is promoted everywhere. Part of the wood is manufactured into sheets, railway sleepers, pit props, veneers, boxes, prefabricated houses, toys, matches and many other products. Sawn timber exports go mainly to West Germany and Italy.
Austria is rich in natural resources which supply the raw materials for important industries. For centuries iron ore has been mined from the largest above ground mine in Europe, the Erzberg iron ore mountain. There are coins from the Fourth Century made from this mine which now accounts for three-quarters of Austrian production. The Huettenberg mine in Carinthia supplies the remaining quarter of Austrian production. Century old “Noric iron” comes from this mine. In the Middle Ages and at the time of the Hanseatic League, Austrian iron was an important trade item, sold not only to England, but also to Spain and the Americas. However the old iron forges have stopped their hammering and gigantic blast furnaces and industrial plants have taken their place. It is estimated that present iron resources amount to about 330 million tons.
Magnesite Deposits
Valuable magnesite deposits supply blast furnaces with indispensable insulation material and produce sufficient quantities for export. Austria once possessed a world monopoly in magnesite production and important discoveries in the field of magnesite smelting and processing have been made by Austrian engineers. The first tunnel oven for the roasting of magnesite was located in Carinthia.
Prior to World War I Austrian coal deposits were disregarded for the niost part as the Austro-Hungarian industries were well supplied with Czech and Polish coal. After 1918 however, when these stqrplies were cut off, systematic exploration and production were initiated. The coal deposits are mainly in the southeastern part of the country and they contain mostly soft coal.
It is estimated that there are about 300 million tons of coal in Austria, but present production cannot fill power demands. Rather than import large quantities of coal the continually increasing demand for power is being satisfied by electricity produced from water power. During the First Republic a start was made in the exploitation of the nation’s abundant water power but progress was slow because of lack of capital. After World War II construction of hydro-electric plants on a large scale was financed partly by loans raised in the country, partly by means from Marshall Plan Aid, and partly by loans received from the World Bank.
Large rivers in the Austrian Alps — the Enns, Drau, Inn and Mur axe all sources of water power. Enormous dams have been erected in lonely mountain valleys generating nullions of kilowatts of electric power. The big rivers of the plain, particularly the Danube, are also sources of energy.
Thus Austria has become one of the foremost producers of hydro-electric current in Europe. The developable capacity of hydroelectric power resources is estimated at 40 billion kilowatts per year and even if only a part of this capacity were exploited, the nation could become a power reservoir of Europe. The most important storage power stations are situated in the west and south of Austiia.
Oil Production
After Rumania, Austria is the second-biggest oil producer in Europe. In 1935 a systematic exploitation of oil fields was initiated with production reaching 56,000 tons in 1938. English and American firms had purchased part of the mining rights in the area north of Vienna. With the invasion of German troops oil facilities were taken over by the government and production pushed to the utmost. After the war, except for American and Biitish mining interests, the oil and natural gas industry was seized by the Soviet Union and only recently returned to Austria according to the stipulations of the State Tieaty. It is estimated that oil resources total 80 to 100 million tons, but an important problem facing the oil industry today is the modernization of refineries.
Over 3,000 years ago salt was mined in the Austrian Alpine valleys and it remained a trade and barter item of international importance until modern times. Since the time of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy salt has been a state monopoly, the mines and works being owned and worked by the state. The total salt capacity of facilities is about 125,000 tons per year. Salt is not only used for human consumption and for animals, but also in the production of chlorine, caustic soda, cellone wool and plastics. Lead, zinc and molybdenum ores are mined in the south of Austria. Other less important,
but still valuable, deposits are of graphite, china clay, copper, antimony, gypsum and quartz.
In 1945, at the end of World War II, Austrian industrial production had shrunk to about one-third of its pie-war output. Ten years later Austrian industry produced twice as much as in 1937. With a nearly doubled output Austrian industiy is less dependent from imports of raw materials and, at the same time, better qualified for higher exports than in 1938. This development is the more noticeable since Austria lost her traditional markets in the east and southeast of Europe after 1945, ana had to seek a foothold in the western countries under severe competition. In 1948 the Austrian parliament decided to nationalize basic industries. Oil, electricity, coal and metal mining, non and steel and part of chemical, electrical, machine and vehicle production are now under national administration.
Prior to World War II Austrian production of pig iron and raw steel was comparatively limited. During the war production rose tremendously but war damage and dismantlings caused severe financial loss to the industry. However production has been increasing rapidly until today Austria ranks 13th among the steel producing countries of Euiope. Although some domestic iron ore is used, quantities have to be imported and scrap requirements cannot be indigenously fulfilled. The experience gained in the production of fine steels serves as a basis for the construction of machines and vehicles. Austria produces machinery for heavy industry, metal works installations, rolling mills, oil drilling and mining equipment, as well as generators, industrial and agricultural machinery, lathes, apparatus, armatures and ball-bearings.
The paper industry is among the most important in the nation, particularly with