Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
April 1945 and on May 1st the democratic constitution of Austria of October 1, 1920 with the amendments of 1929 was made operative again by a transitory constitutional law. In October 1945 the four Occupation Powers (the United States, the United Kingdom, the U.S.S.R. and France) acknowledged the provisional government with the proviso that general elections be held the same year. These elections, free and uninfluenced, took place on November 25, 1945.
The Occupation Powers divided the country into four zones and the Federal Capital of Vienna into four districts. The City of Vienna was internationalized. War industry was dismantled. Despite the fact that food was in short supply, and that there was a lack of transportation, housing, machinery and raw materials, Austria started reconstruction of industrial plants, apartment houses and public buildings. Although the domestic situation was speedily consolidated, economic difficulties continued.
The United States was the first power to renounce occupation costs with the Soviet Union, Great Britain and France following-in that order. During the three year period from 1945 to 1948, foreign aid, mainly American and British, enabled Austria to import goods valued at about $279 million. Private foreign institutions put about $110 million of additional goods at the disposal of the Austrian population.
All this aid, however, was merely sufficient to cover the most pressing demands and to remove the worst damages of war. A longterm reconstruction plan could only be initiated after Austria had been included in the United States Marshall Plan Aid Program.
Total aid through the Marshall Plan amounted to $962 million between January 1, 1948 and its termination on March 31,
1955. Schilling proceeds from the sale of foreign aid deliveries were paid into a “Counterpart account” of the Austrian National Bank. The counterpart funds were used to back the currency, to subsidize consumer prices, but above all to finance investments. These investments covered hydro-electric plants, industrial enterprises, agriculture and forestry, tourist facilities, public housing and public communications, as well as various smaller items.
Occupation Regime Relaxed
Gradually the Occupation Regime in Austria was relaxed but it required ten years of effort to bring about a State Treaty which was finally signed in May 1955. On October 25, 1955, prior to the expiration of a specified withdrawal period, the last foreign soldier left Austrian territory. The Treaty was of utmost importance to the Austrian economy for it returned to Aus-strian estates, forests, mines, industrial plants, means of communication, oil fields and oil processing plants. However, it stipulated substantial payments to the Soviet Union. In the summer of 1955, two million dollars had to be paid in cash to the Soviet Union for the return of the confiscated Danube Shipping Company.
To redeem former industrial plants in the eastern part of Austria which had also been seized by the Russians in 1945 as German assets, Austria has to deliver goods equivalent to 25 million dollars yearly for six years to the Soviet Union. To redeem oil wells, mining rights and oil refineries, Austria has to deliver over a ten year period, one million tons of oil worth eighteen million dollars per year to the U.S.S.R.
Austria has been able to carry these payments without the introduction of new taxes or the raising of existing ones. The
development of business since the end of World War II has proven Austria’s capacity to survive and having created the prerequisites for economic independence what has been achieved up until now is providing a basis for future development.
Two-thirds of Austria’s total area of 32,366 square miles are taken up by the Alps. Mountains and valleys incline toward the Danube River in the north which flows through the country for 217 miles from west to east.
North of the Danube a fertile hilly country rises only occasionally to 3,000 feet. Through the southern part stretch the enormous Alps with the highest peak (Grossglockner) reaching 12,465 feet. Wide areas of the mountains are under eternal ice and snow. The mountainous area changes in the east into the Vienna bowl which forms a connection to the wide Hungarian plain. In the east and west of Austria are two big lakes.
In the east in a steppe lies Neusiedler Lake with 124 square miles. In the west lies Bodensee Lake which is 208 square miles although only 9.3 square miles belong to Austria. There are also 88 larger lakes and many smaller ones in the country.
Arable Land
Of Austria’s total area arable land accounts for a little over 20% and another 20% consists of meadows and pastures. A little more than 1 % lies in gardens including vineyards. Thus, less than one-half of the area can be used for the production of food and therefore it is impossible to cover the nation’s entire food requirement domestically.
All efforts are being made to produce as much as possible under the circumstances and to increase crop yields. Soil is fortified with fertilizer, dams and irrigation systems are constructed, rivers improved and protective measures taken against avalanches. At the same time the motorization and mechanization of farms is making great progress.
Research institutes have been greatly enlarged as schooling of young farmers is intensified. Chambers of Agriculture promote production and sales, and the farmers are united in agricultural cooperatives which represent their business interests. Thanks to consistent planning and effort, agricultural production shows higher yields in practically all fields of importance, since 1938. This includes production of wheat, rye, mixed winter grain, barley, oats, maize, potatoes, sugar beets, lucern hay and hay.
Stock farming plays an important role in Austria. The comparative abundance of pastures makes it possible to raise cattle of excellent quality, many of which are exported. Dairy products such as milk, butter, and cheese as well as meat are of excellent quality. Due to the all-out effort of Austrian agriculture it has been possible to supply the population with about 85% of its food despite the limited fertile grounds at the nation’s disposal.
Thirty-seven percent of Austria’s area is covered with forests which are sources of important raw materials, not only wood, but turpentine oils, volatile oils and a number of other basic materials. In addition, the forests prevent the washing away
Courtesy Austria State Tourist Dept.
Austrian timber industry in the Province of Salzburg