BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
AUSTRIA
Page 3
steamer trip is from Linz to Vienna on one of the floating river palaces. The best wines of the country come from Lower Austria whose meadows and vineyards surround Vienna itself like a green garland. Burgen-lancl province is like a kitchen garden at the capital’s back door.
A Fascinating Past
The history of Austria goes back some 3,000 years before Christ, when many tribes were attracted to the valley of the Danube. The Illyrians established a culture whose progress is suggested by the amount of bronze, gold, and amber uncovered in hundreds of graves. In the fourth century B.C., the Celts came to Austria, the same ones, blonde and blue-eyed, who gave the world the famous legends of King Arthur. In the Vienna Museum one can see the beautiful embossed coins they made.
A few years before Christ was born, the Romans reached Austria. They introduced a highly-developed concept of law, planted wheat and vines, built temples and roads. Their camps became the bases of Austrian cities. Then came the Teutons, the Goths, the Huns, whose leader, Attila, established himself in Vienna.
Other tribes came later, and for hundreds of years Austria remained under the shadow of a dark age. Christianity grew. In the eighth century, Charlemagne, the greatest Christian prince of the Middle Ages, imposed some order on the chaos of Europe, and established the Marchia Austriaca or Eastern Marches, thus naming the territory known today as Upper and Lower Austria.
Austria was really born in 976 when this eastern province was officially given to Count Leopold von Babenberg by Otto the Great, first of the Holy Roman Emperors. Among the more interesting of the Baben-bergs were Leopold V, Leopold VI, and
Hintersee, Austria, showing a country church and a picturesque foot bridge.
AUSTRIA
by Enrique Portes
Austrians have been called the most hospitable people of Europe. There are now seven million of them, inhabiting a small republic in the heart of the continent. With an area of 32,376 square miles, it is no bigger than the state of Maine. Almost three-quarters of Austria is rolling hills, barren high plateaus, steep narrow valleys, or great mountain ranges with peaks more than 10,000 feet high.
Shaped like a pear, the country is divided into nine provinces, each with its own character and folklore, each with a certain amount of local autonomy, but all linked by a network of roads and railroads as well as air service.
A trip through Austria is an endless succession of magnificent views. Entering from the west, you are in the smallest of the federal provinces, Vorarlberg. This is a lovely land of grassy slopes and pastures running high up toward towering mountains. On one of these peaks, according to local tradition, Noah’s Ark came to rest after the flood.
Going east into the Tyrol you pass through a six-mile tunnel or drive over the spectacular Arlberg Pass, 6,000 feet high. Soon you will find that this is a province of rustling forests, picturesque mountain villages, and incomparable ski slopes. Tyrol is celebrated for its national costumes and its handicrafts dating back to the Middle Ages. The Tyrolese, noted for their love of music and yodeling, are very proud of their national hero, Andreas Hofer, an innkeeper who stood up to Napoleon like David confronting Goliath, and inflicted two defeats on his troops in the Tyrolean war of liberation in 1S09. A bronze statue near Innsbruck commemorates Hofer’s heroism.
Innsbruck, the capital of Tyrol, is one of the most beautiful towns of its size. To the north, the steep, sheer sides of the mighty Alps rise like a shimmering blue and white wall from the edge of the city; an impressive and awe-inspiring backcloth to the mellowed green domes and red roofs of the picturesque baroque town. Innsbruck — the Inn Bridge —with less than 100,000 inhabitants, is a compact little town easy to explore. The first attraction is the world famous view from the Maria-Theresien-Strasse towards the Alps of the Northern Chain. There you will see also the Triumphal Arch, which spans the Maria-Theresian-Strasse, and the remarkable curiosity, the Goldenes Dachl, or Golden Roof.
Continuing eastward, you leave behind the Alps for the undulating hills of Salzburg, a province of lakes and valleys, dominated by its capital, Salzburg. Salzburg is the birthplace of Mozart, the site of the annual festival to honor him, also the home of the famous Salzburg Marionettes.
Although Mozart was the wonder child of Europe, his native city did him no particular honor in his lifetime. It is making up for it now. Ever since 1925, on the initiative of Max Reinhard and others, the last week in July and most all of August have been
given up to Salzburg’s internationally famous Festival. Though not devoted exclusively to Mozart, it is nevertheless dominated by veneration for this native of the city who stands at the very top in the hierarchy of music. The world’s greatest conductors and singers come here yearly to take part in the Festival performances, accepting fees much lower than they might earn elsewhere as the tribute they owe to this master of music.
South of Salzburg lies Carinthia (or Karnten), southernmost province of Austria, close to Italy and Yugoslavia. Here is the highest mountain in Austria, the 12,461-l'oot Grossglockner. Carinthia has fine ski runs, lovely lakes, and the best climate in Austria. Its inhabitants are also proud of their romanesque cathedral at Gurk and their famous Schloss Hochosterwitz which served as the model for Walt Disney’s fairy castle in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.
It is a short drive from Carinthia to Graz, the flourishing capital of Styria. This beautiful university town is the center of a province important for its orchards and vineyards as well as its mineral resources, including the famous Erzberg mine which yields some 2 million tons of iron yearly. Graz with about 300,000 inhabitants, the second largest city in Austria, is a lively place. Many of its male citizens wear in town the gray Loden suit with green lapels and wide green stripes on the trousers, which is called “Steirergewand,” or Styrian costume.
Northeast of Styria are the provinces of Upper and Lower Austria, rich in minerals and fruits. Linz is the capital of Upper Austria, on the Danube. The classical