World Airways Teacher
Page 4	STUDY UNIT
other buildings around Independence Square one can find many stores — from the jam-packed shops where anything will be fixed, from shoes to watches, to larger shops which offer practically everything. And beyond the heart of the city, the Mercado Central on 24 de Mayo street has unimaginable things. It is a sort of permanent fair. Explore a little more and you will find groceries, meat markets, soda fountains, cleaning-and-dyeing service — all practically unknown some twenty-five years ago.
Quito has many fine hotels where the traveler will be served the most truly amazing food — from lobster which comes to the table on ice beds under which colored electric lights are twinkling, to native delicate dishes of quaint names, such as “locro” (a delicious potato soup with corn and cheese), “llapingacho” (an omelet of potatoes, cheese and egg on top), and “humitas” (tamales wrapped in green banana leaves).
Quito is the political and cultural heart of Ecuador. It has a fine University and many schools, including a Conservatory of Music, schools of arts and crafts, theaters and concert halls. Its museums contain rich collections of archeological objects and historical manuscripts as well as art treasures. It is a city which invites you to study.
Quiteños are very proud of their culture and their Spanish heritage and tradition. They are proud of what they call sal quiteña — the salty flavor of their humor. They are charming and hospitable the moment contact is established. Many of their writers and poets are well-known throughout the Spanish world.
Quito is a city to explore and enjoy in a quiet fashion — a city which helps you to
recover your sense of proportion and a feeling of well-being.
Guayaquil, a Vibrant Town
Guayaquil is a modern city in the tropics. Though because of the heat one is not much attracted at the first encounter, this is a city that grows upon one quickly. Along the waterfront of this unique port, there streams a flow of unceasing activity. River boats piled high with bananas, pineapples, mangoes, papayas and other tropical fruits unload at the docks. Explore around the city and you will find sights of real interest — “chocolate paved” streets where the aromatic brown beans of cacao are spread out to dry in the sun. Drive north toward the rock that overhangs the town, and you come upon a great modern hospital. It is an expression of the citizens’ public spirit, and the country people of the whole Ecuadorean coast resort to it for treatment.
Guayaquil’s front door is the Malecón “Simón Bolívar”— a broad boulevard extending along the Guayas River. Crossing the city from east to west is Ninth of October Avenue (9 de Octubre) where day and night activity is in sharp contrast to Quito’s rather somber feeling.
Guayaquil has its historic landmarks. La Rotonda is one of them. It is a semi-circle colonnade partially encircling the statue of Generals Bolivar and San Martin whose meeting in 1822 took place on the same spot. The two South American Liberators met here but what happened between them is still a mystery. The fact is that after the conference, General San Martin retired into private life leaving General Bolivar to continue the war against Spain.
Guayaquyil has fine hotels for the com-
CAPITULARY HALL OF SAN AGUSTIN (St. Augustine) - All the cloisters of Quito have a similar section in which the monks belonging to the Order congregate for their special religious devotions. This Sala belongs to the Orden de San Agustin (Order of Saint Augustine^ and is located in the interior of the Convent of the same name in Quito. This was the meeting place for the first Ecuadorian patriots who constituted the "Junta Soberana de Quito" (Sovereign Council of Quito), which, on August 10, 1809, proclaimed the independence from Spain of the present territory of the Republic of Ecuador, at that time called "Real Audiencia de Quito." At the center of the picture, in the rear, is the chair that was used by Juan Pio Montüfar, Marqués de Selva Alegre, the President of the Council, and the table on which the Act of the Declaration of Independence was signed. Independence actually was achieved in 1822.
fort and enjoyment of the traveler. Its public buildings are neat and white and its Cemetery quite a place to visit — strange as it may seem. Far from depressing, tha^ place offers an interesting arrangement ot^B the crypts in tiers above the ground, and many of the mausoleums and statues there are works of art. The cultural life of the city is centered in the University, the National Conservatory of Music, the Association of Fine Arts, the Institute of Historical Research and the libraries and museums.
Meet the Guayaquileños, and you’ll find them frank, alert, energetic, independent. Despite the heat, they are the hardest workers, spend more, live better, and reflect a liberal political and religious attitude. You will find them in banks, commercial establishments, and shipping offices, immaculate in fresh white suits, or enjoying all types of sports — tennis, golf, foot-ball, and later promenading along the Malecón after sundown, or in the spacious Plaza Centenario listening to a band concert.
Most of Guayaquil’s rectangular streets are filled with modern concrete buildings which constitute the present town. A few years ago the city was all shacks and it used to be swept by devastating fires. Fighting the fires, fighting the heat, insects and yellow fever — now eradicated for ever — the people of Guayaquil have developed an indomitable spirit. More building is going on busily, and this work is drawing in labor from the whole country, and raising the wages and the standard of living of all.
Guayaquil may well be the vibrant flameas Arnold Toynbee remarked recently^! “which will eventually weld into a nationa^i unity the disparate elements of the country’s population.”
Other Cities
Cuenca is in size and importance the third city of Ecuador. It has a university and many schools, and interesting buildings constructed with marble from local quarries. The center of the city is Calderón Park, flanked by the old government house, the university and a vast cathedral still under construction. The park — where university students sit and study and poets write verses — is named after the youthful Cuenca here who gave his life in the battle of Pichincha against the Spaniards in 1822. The city has many libraries and a fine museum.
Cuenca is also the center of an important industry — the weaving of toquilla straw hats. The hat makers bring their product to the market there where wholesalers and exporters buy it. This is a colorful fair to see, a gathering of Indians, men and women, wearing their best, specially the women in their skirts of embroidered flowers and beautiful shawls (locally called macanas).
Cuenca has given to the country quite a few important citizens who have contributed to raise the intellectual prestige of Ecuador.
There is another small town — Ambato — called the garden city of Ecuador. It is situated in an agricultural region which grows tempting apples, pears, strawberries, pineapples, and all kinds of vegetables. Its climate reminds the traveler of San Diego, California, and its atmosphere is invigor-