World Airways Teacher
Page2	STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO ECUADOR
So we’re going to Ecuador.
What shall we do first?
Well, it’s information we want to start with, and the sources are the transportation companies and the travel agents. And we may inquire in person, by telephone or by letter.
Let’s go and see the travel agent. He is an expert on travel anywhere in the world, and it is quite likely that he has visited Ecuador himself. He can make our bookings for space on the Clipper, and will also help us with such matters as the passport application, reservations in the hotel, arrangements for sightseeing trips if that is what we want, and information about the country and what to see. Using his services won’t add to the cost — his return is from commissions from the air lines, hotels and others he represents.
So we call at the travel agent’s offices, and tell him we want to go by Clipper to Ecuador.
He looks up the routings and fares in his “Official Air Line Guide” and we ask him to tell us, first of all, “What will it cost?”
There are two classes of service—“El Inter-americano” is first class, and its stop in Ecuador is at Guayaquil. The round trip fare — New York City to Guayaquil and return — is $561.60. On “El Pacifico” which is the tourist service, and which calls at Quito, the round trip fare from New York is $413.
On either, we’ll travel over the routes of three different airlines, but we won’t have to change airplanes. The airlines have an “interchange.” One airplane is used for the entire journey — out of New York it is flown by a National Airlines crew. From Miami to Panama, the crew is provided by Pan Amer-
ican World Airways. From there to Quito it is Pan American-Grace Airways (Panagra), which is one of the companies in the Pan American World Airways System, and which operates on the west coast of South America to Chile and across to Argentina.
The time will be about 13 hours.
And what is the difference between “El Interamericano” and “El Pacifico”—between first class and tourist?
For tourist service we pay less — the fares were quoted above. The difference in accommodations is primarily in the seating arrangement. On the tourist aircraft there are more seats, closer together, than on the first class “El Interamericano.” The air lines refer to these arrangements as the seating configurations.
In addition, the service aboard the first class airplanes is “de luxe” with meals like those in the finest hotels and other passenger conveniences comparably fine. On a tourist flight we’ll content ourselves with comfortable simplicity.
So we ask the travel agent to book passage for us, and we set a date a month or more away for our journey, for there are many things to be done — also, that gives us more time for the fun of anticipation.
Besides that, we need time to file an application for a passport, wait for it to be processed, and for the passport to be issued. To get a passport, we get the application form from the State Department in Washington, or one of thct department’s Passport Offices in other cities, either by going in person or writing for it. We complete the form, attach the evidence of citizenship and fee which are
called for by the application, and mail or deliver it to the State Department. The process takes two weeks to a month.
Ecuador does not require a visa, but does require a tourist card with photo attached, the fee for which is $1.00. This is obtained from an Ecuadorean consulate. It will be necessary to have a valid certificate of small pox vaccination, and a health certificate stating that we have no contagious or incurable disease. We need also six front view photographs. And we are told that we should be prepared to pay a $2 landing tax on arrival at Quito or Guayaquil.
With these matters accounted for we can turn our attention now to the matter of wardrobe for our journey. Bear in mind that the baggage allowance is 66 pounds for first class travel, 44 pounds for tourist. If more than that weight is taken along, either checked and put into the baggage hold or carried aboard the plane by the passenger (with a few exceptions such as lady’s handbag, walking stick, small camera) excess baggage charges will be collected.
Actually, the limitation even of 44 pounds is ample to cover normal wardrobe and personal accessories. As we proceed on our journey, we’ll be glad that we have been limited to the necessary essentials by the baggage allowance, and are not cluttered with a lot of extra belongings that might not even be used during the trip.
Perhaps we’ll buy new luggage. If so, we’ll find that the luggage manufacturers have exercised great ingenuity to provide bags that are attractive, strong and durable, and still light in weight so that the maximum o belongings may be stowed inside and stil the total will be within the specified limitation. (See Wardrobe Weight Guide, Page 8.)
That covers wardrobe planning. Remaining now is one of the most important of all the preliminaries and that is the process of learning all we possibly can about Ecuador, its people, their customs, their government, their modes of making and living and all of the small, important matters which will make our stay there more pleasant if we are familiar with them.
The articles on the succeeding pages are intended to supply such information. Further sources of information are listed under the heading “Suggestions for a Study Unit.”
The more thorough our exploration of these matters, the better will we enjoy our visit to Ecuador.
Finally comes the day for departure. We’re in New York, we take the limousine to the International Airport, we check in at the counter, our plane’s departure is announced and we go aboard.
A stewardess shows us to our seats, and we settle ourselves for the journey southward. The door is closed, and the ramp mechanics move the steps away. Each engine in turn roars into action, and the airplane moves out to the end of the runway where it pauses for final pre-departure engine and instrument checks and clearance from the control tower for takeoff.
The moment has arrived. The engine roar deepens, we move at first slowly, then swiftly, down the runway; we are airborne, we circle around and head southward, bound for the land named for the Equator.