Page T-2
Pah American
IVorid A/smyy Teacher
c
Pan American
World Air have Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways. George Gardner, Superintendent, Educational Services
Copyright, 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.	___
Hound the World Trip
by Winifred A. Barry
What’s appropriate for recognizing a silver anniversary in the teaching profession? Miss Barry’s friends in Oceanside, N. Y. thought a travel purse was just the thing, and Miss Barry enthusiastically agreed, as is evident from her account of the trip it bought for her.	Ed.
’Round the World by Air! That sounds like a dream, but not for you perhaps? Well, I too, never thought it possible. But, I’ve had the joy and challenge of teaching in Oceanside for 25 years. My fellow professional workers honored me by a silver anniversary party at which time they presented me with a purse for travel purposes.
Yes, I was completely overwhelmed and hadn’t really .gained my breath when a “This is Your Life Program” on Founders Day by our Oceanside P.T.A.’s left me speechless — for with the recognition they gave me, which I really was accepting for the fellowship, understanding and untiring efforts of my co-workers, teachers, principals, superintendent and board of education members — I gained another purse for travel purposes! My goal — Tokyo, Japan where my brother, member of U. S. Army, his wife and two children live. Yes, I could and would go zooming to new vistas. Such preparations are involved. Passport pictures (am I that queer looking to children?); inoculations of all kinds; I almost felt like a pincushion but safety was my motto so I took all shots as a precaution.
The capable assistance of the American Express in routing my trip brought out the realization that I could continue ’Round the World and home for the same price ticket. The next problem, “where to visit” for all my life I’d read and seen pictures of foreign lands. It was a difficult decision but a happy one as I review my trip.
Packing 44 lbs. — as I went Air Tourist — for 50 days, and me with size ten shoes, presented a dilemma. However, Pan American Airways issues helpful bulletins for folks going ’Round the World, and at last I was set to see my new horizons. Such an exciting series of adventures ahead.
I left Idlewild Airport on July 1st and my friends were there to see me off. I felt most honored that our Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Walter Boardman, took the time to bid me “Happy Landings”. I truly
felt like a V.I.P. — an orchid corsage pinned on my suit, and another presented at the airport. My first stop after leaving the United States was a vacation paradise, Waikiki Beach at Honolulu. The sun, flowers, singing, dancing, the Pacific, the friendliness of the Islanders all gave added meaning to “Aloha” and built up a desire to return and visit the other islands. July 7th I departed again for a long trek — onward to Tokyo. During this flight we crossed the International Date Line — stopped for a brief time at Wake Island where history was written during World War II, and" then again over the blue.
Have you ever flown? Do you know what a glorious sight the puffy white clouds are, or the star-studded heavens, or dawn or the breathtaking sight of a sunset from thousands of feet up? You don’t? Please take a plane flight for then if ever the wonders of God’s handiwork unfold before you and the necessity for man’s striving to live together harmoniously are crystallized. The interesting seatmates I traveled with assured me that mankind as individuals want peace. So we, in the schools, must continue to help children develop real understandings of the heart of a nation — the people. This hope I pray will be realized as we gain more insight into the real conditions of the people.
The highlight of my trip was seeing my family after a year and half separation at the Tokyo Airport, a most modern structure. What good luck I had. The family car had arrived the day before, so added sights of the beauty of Japan in the country sections were my delight. Tasty, artistic Japanese food, the industry of the people whether it be in the rice fields or in constructing homes amazed me. Mount Fujii in all its splendor! The magnificence of Nikko and the shrines. I’d like to go on and on but after fourteen memorable days, went on to Hong Kong, a shopper’s paradise. If you’d really like to have a good idea of the city, see the film “Soldiers of Fortune” for here you have authentic Hong Kong with one omission — the beggars — little Chinese children pleading with you. Next, an unusual honor — dinner at the home of the U. S. Vice Consul and afterwards a better understanding of the vastness of the refugee problem and the thoroughness with which our representatives are striving to bring greater comfort and an opportunity to work to those in need.
Bangkok next, a fairy tale city, with its temples of porcelain and the silver jewelry and the floating markets with the primitive and modern living standards side by side.
My longest flight came next — onward to Istanbul, and on the way — land, water, desert, and a special unexpected treat through the courtesy of P.A.A. a trip to Beirut by taxi — the Blue Mosque, the Minarets, the Bosphorus, the Conrad Hilton Hotel are indelibly engraved on my mind. Then to Athens, one of the friendliest places to visit. Situated in a summer hotel at Kiffssia, I had all the comforts of a resort hotel yet could easily reach the historical ruins of the Acropolis, Temple of Zeus and behold where first the democratic ideals were developed. Then on to
Rome, such richness in religious beliefs of the Catholic Church were enhanced by a visit to St. Peters, the Vatican, th^ Borghese Art Gallery, etc. The rendition of the opera “Aida” was not only an un' forgettable musical experience but an evening of magic beneath the stars and moonlit sky. The catacombs made me wonder how the people of yore had the courage and fortitude to live and die in such quarters as they fought for the principles of Christianity in which they believed.
The plane motors are warming up and then I’m off over the Alps. The grandeur one views below as the snow-capped peaks in tones of mauve, deep purple and gold from the sunset add to the rich treasured memory book pictures in my mind.
Soon one reaches wonderful, charming, courteous, efficient Switzerland. Zurich with a toy shop named Webers that all children and grown-ups are enchanted with. The delicious hot chocolate, the flower boxes, the clean-appearing people, the beauty of Lake Lucerne and the Swiss Alps are special loves of mine.
Next to London and to Buckingham Palace and as I’ve always enjoyed A. A. Milne’s “Changing of the Guards”, now I was actually seeing the precision and pomp and ceremony and feeling the justifiable pride of the English people and visitors in this outward symbol of respect and protection to the beloved royal family. On to the sacred Westminster Abbey and St. Paul’s Cathedral and another day to the inspiring Oxford University and thence to the Shakespeare country of Stratford-on Avon. Oh, to stay longer but the call o Paris bid me come, so “I Loved Paris in the Summer”, the Eiffel Tower, the Louvre, the flower shops, Versailles, and the rose windows of Notre Dame and the sanctity of worship of the people. ’Tis true, Moulon Rouge and the Follies were enjoyed as well, but it isn’t possible — my plane heads home today. So off I go into the wild blue yonder, with the twinkling lights of Paris saying Au revoir — and the stars in the heavens suddenly appearing to give new wonder to the trip. Then clouds, rain and a short bumpy flight but dawn and its promise of a new beginning make me realize anew that the world is, indeed, a small place due to man’s scientific wonders. For I’d left Paris at 8:30 at night, a brief stop at Shannon, Ireland, Newfoundland and then Boston, wonderful U.S.A. by morning. Onward to Idlewild Airport where the American Flag flew in all its glory. For me, a real, welcome home sign and then my family and friends were waving to me.
Yes, Oceanside teachers and parents had through their generosity given me the wherewithal to assist me in flying over the oceans of the world in my “Round the World” trip and for this as well as numerous other experiences, I love and respect them dearly. I’ll never forget that my brief impressions gained during my short “bird call visits”, for my entire trip was only 52 days, are fragments of the real people but at least I feel I’ve had a chance to say “Getting to Know You” has been a privilege. “Neighbors of the World” and God willing I’ll return soon to become better acquainted.