BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
ECUADOR	Page 3
Ecuador—Land of
By Enrique Portes
Contrasts
Situated on the great circle of the earth which is equidistant, from the North and South Poles, Ecuador is named for the Equator.
In that location, one would expect Ecuador to be very hot, but it is not. Thanks to the high Andean mountains which cut through in two ranges, the climate is tempered by cool air, making the land a pleasant place in which to live. Ecuadoreans will tell you that their country climate is measured by the mile. This is indeed the best way to gauge the extremes of temperature, which are determined mainly by altitude.
The mountains with high snow-capped volcanic cones, notably the Chimborazo (about 20,500 feet) and Cotopaxi (about 19,600 feet), dominate the country. These volcanic peaks have always challenged the courage of mountain climbers. Alexander von Humboldt first and Simon Bolivar later attempted to scale the Chimborazo, but only recently has it been finally conquered by the English Edward Whymper. Mountain pedestals and spurs divide the long rift and create high, generally fertile inter-montane valleys. It is here where about two-thirds of the population live.
This country, for numerous reasons—
•geographical, geological and historical ones among others—has attracted many naturalists, geographers, and archeologists. It was in Ecuador that the true shape of the earth was established by the French mathematician Charles Marie de la Condamine, who in 1735 headed the first scientific expedition to South America. Condamine measured the arc of the meridian at the Equator, the measurement upon which the metric system is based.
This small country is also the owner of the famous Galapagos Islands situated some 650 miles west of Ecuador and 1000 miles southwest of the Panama Canal. Named for the gigantic (up to 500 pounds) land tortoise, which is today dying out, these islands are still a sort of mysterious paradise, for there are in addition to the tortoise, sea and land iguanas and hosts of land and sea birds, such as the flightless cormorant which exists nowhere else. The Galapagos were visited in 1835 by Charles Darwin in the famous voyage of the Beagle, and after observation, investigation and written correlation of facts about animal life in this Ecuadorean possession Darwin was led to the formulation of his conception of evolution, known today as Darwinism.
This small country with a wedge-shaped territory on the northwest coast of South America is unusual indeed. It has a long history, not always peaceful but always full of excitement. Ecuador is the birthplace of ^«îminent men of letters whose names are ^^well known in the Spanish speaking world. José Olmedo—an outstanding poet of classical background — and Juan Montalvo — a great writer of magnificent literary style and high intellect.
The history of Ecuador goes back many centuries before Francisco Pizarro first heard about the great Inca empire and its fabulous wealth. Its past is so interwoven with myths and fables that historians can hardly separate truth from legend. The Quitus — the oldest tribe — were conquered by the Caras, another tribe of unknown origin. The Caras in turn were conquered by Huayna-Capac, the twelfth Inca of Peru. His son, Atahualpa, was the Inca in power when the Spaniards arrived, and Atahualpa was the Inca who paid, in vain, a huge amount of gold for his life. Exploration by the Conquistadores was quick and complete, and then came the colonial period which lasted more than three centuries until the War of Independence was won in 1822. Today Ecuador, a Republic with a constitutional government, is a Member of the United Nations.
Quito, a Quiet City
Quito, the capital of Ecuador, just below the equator, is always an exploration trip into the fantastic and the slightly incredible. Though Panagra flies you there in the course of a few hours from the United States, Quito still lives its own peculiar mixture of time and space. It remains an old Spanish city in its classical tradition.
The city lies in a bowl whose walls are steep green fields and high mountains.
This ancient capital has acquired a soft, mellow patina over the centuries. Practically all about it has an air of tranquility — dignified churches and monasteries with altars adorned with gold and silver, sleepy small squares, narrow streets, low houses with red tile roofs. Even modern buildings seem to blend curiously enough with the old and picturesque. More than four centuries have passed since Belalcazar founded
the city on the ruins of Atahualpa’s once great capital, but Quito still keeps alive its Spanish colonial characteristics.
The city is overshadowed by the slumbering Pichincha volcano. Second highest capital next to La Paz, Bolivia, Quito enjoys a mild climate throughout the year, though it is only about 15 miles from the equator. The modern section of the capital has wide avenues, fine parks and elegant buildings and hotels, but Quito’s charm is elsewhere — in those steep and winding streets, in the quiet churches and monasteries reminiscent of ancient times, in the old colonial houses still inhabited by the heirs of the original owners.
Its churches and monasteries of Spanish baroque architecture are filled with treasures of colonial days. The high point of Quiteño art and architecture is the church and cloister of San Francisco, with its fine collection of pictures of the imperial age. In the days of the Spanish empire, Quito was the home of a school of religious painters whose works are still prized today.
The Compañía (that is, the church of the Society of Jesus) is another edifice of enduring beauty. Its façade, intricately and fancifully carved, resembles filigree. The monastery of San Agustín has a historical significance for Ecuadoreans. Buried in the monastery are many of the patriots whose courage set in motion the war of Independence.
The center of Quito is Plaza Independencia. It is surrounded by the Cathedral, the government palace, the Archbishop’s house, and City Hall. The Cathedral, with its grey stone porticos and green tile dome, houses the tomb of Marshal Antonio José de Sucre, hero of the battle of Pichincha which made Ecuador free.
Under the government house and the
View taken from the new scenic road of the picturesque Valley of Guapulo in which the small town of Guapulo is located.