BY HYING CLIPPER TO
ECUADOR
is also important as the leading supplier for the United States of a few specialized tropical products, inclining toquilla (Pa-
tma) hats, tagua nuts (vegetable ivory) d balsa wood. Balsa wood, obtained from rapidly growing trees which reach a height of about forty feet, is an interesting product. The wood of these trees is the lightest ever found. It is only about one-half as heavy as cork and very soft. Because the wood is so light and porous, it is often waterproofed and used for life preservers and life rafts on ships. It is also used for insulating refrigerators and storage rooms. For a while balsa was used extensively in airplane construction, and is still the leading material for flying model aircraft. Small craft made of balsa wood are capable of crossing the Pacific Ocean as was demonstrated recently by the famous Kontiki.
Cities
The chief seaport and commercial center of Ecuador is Guayaquil which stands on the right bank of the River Guayas, thirty miles from its mouth. The port is 800 miles from Panama or 53/4 hours by Clipper. About 172,740 people inhabit the city. Sanitation is modern and conditions of public health are especially satisfactory from May to December, when the climate, with little or no rain and cool nights, is at its best. Typical architecture consists of rows of buildings, with massive arcades. The better class houses have large rooms, very high ceilings, a street balcony and picturesque tile roofs. A promenade, laid out with gardens, has been built along the river front. ■ he city is dotted with beautiful small parks. There is a good University. The Municipal Palace is regarded as one of the best public buildings in South America.
The harbor of Guayaquil is two-and-one-half miles long with one-and-one-half miles of docks. It is bustling and prosperous. Steam sawmills, foundries, machine-shops and breweries denote the busy activities of to-day, but a few yards across the Plaza to the inside of the cathedral carry the traveler back to the leisure of Spanish days. The city itself is actually divided into two parts, the old and the new. In the old town the streets are crooked though picturesque. In the new town they are well laid out and lined by the residences of the more well-to-do families. The rail journey from Guayaquil to Quito ascends from the heart of the jungle to the Andes.
In Quito the sun rises at six o’clock every morning because it is on the equator. The second highest capital in the world, the city, with an altitude of 9,000 feet is always cool. Quito is situated on the east side of a great plateau at the foot of the volcano of Pichincha. Founded in 1534 it has suffered frequently from earthquakes. The population numbers about 166,000. Quito is filled with excellent examples of colonial art. There are over fifty churches each filled with magnificent displays of gold, sil-
Iver and jewels, exquisitely carved altars and faulted ceilings brilliant with gold leaf. There is a good University there. The architecture is largely of the Spanish colonial type, although the town antedates the coming of the white man. The Incas built a
road over the Cordilleras to Cuzco in Peru and remains still exist, together with relics of their forts and temples. The streets are steep and there are many flowers. Day and night are equal in length and darkness falls regularly at six.
Cuenca, the capital of the province of Azuay, is the third most important city of Ecuador. It lies about 8,460 feet above sea level and is 117 miles southeast of Guayaquil and 190 miles south of Quito. The city, with about 80,000 people, has managed to preserve its old colonial air. The cobblestone streets and quaint old buildings give little hint of the commerce that is carried on. From nearby Azogues come the Panama hats with their brims rough and unfinished. Bought in this state they are trimmed and stitched in Cuenca and made ready for export. Much of Ecuador’s cinchona or quinine bark comes out of the hot Oriente country to the east to be shipped from Cuenca. In the lower valleys a considerable quantity of sugar cane is also grown. One of the most remarkable features of the city are the paintings on the patio walls of many of the old houses. Though sometimes crude, these murals are always interesting for their originality and the old-fashioned Spanish proverbs that go with them.
The Islands
Included under Ecuadoran jurisdiction are the Galapagos Islands, annexed in 1885. These islands of volcanic origin are situated in the Pacific Ocean directly under the equator. They are said to have been so named by the Spaniards who discovered them in the Sixteenth Century from gala-pago, a tortoise. The islands were the home of vast numbers of turtles, now largely depleted. The group consists of sixteen islands, and they all bear English names, possibly because they were formerly a place of refuge for English buccaneers and whalers. At an earlier date they were known as the Encantadas, (Enchanted Isles). They lie 323 miles from the Ecuadorean coast and 535 miles from the Port of Panama.
The total area of the islands is about 3,028 square miles and the largest one, Albemarle or Isabel, is 1,650 square miles. Chatham Island, at one time a convict station, has about 500 to 600 inhabitants. Since the cutting of the Panama Canal the islands have come into more prominence, as they lie on the direct sea route to Australia. Vegetation is prolific upon their shores and includes innumerable varieties of orchids, beautiful flowers, climbing plants, trees, and trailing orchilla moss. The islands themselves are flat and lava-covered inland. As their volcanoes are at times active, plant life is stunted. Two volcanoes seen in eruption in 1925 have been named Mounts Williams and Whiton. Salt and hides are exported from the Galapagos to Guayaquil. Lizard skins are among the available products.
There are many things to see in Ecuador which are off the beaten path. It is however, a small country with big problems. The Government has plans to stimulate the tourist industry which could be an invaluable source of income which would go to the people themselves. It is anticipated
Page 7
that tourist hotels will be constructed at such places as Esmeraldas, Manta, Salinas, Puerto Bolivar, Ibarra, Otavalo, Cuenca and Banos. Such accommodations will allow air travelers to use Quito or Guayaquil as a base and to branch out into the countryside to see the new and different.
The Government is also endeavoring to bring about a situation whereby the nation’s natural resources will be better able to serve its citizens. Agricultural machinery will be acquired and men trained to run and maintain it. The Government advocates the establishment of agricultural training centers where people may learn modern agricultural techniques at low cost. Rehabilitation of cacao production is planned with large-scale plantings of disease resisting seedlings, technical assistance and credit plans. rFhe Government also advocates the construction of a large freezing plant in the port city of Guayaquil as well as other storage facilities. Technical assistance is needed for Ecuador’s textile industry and also in cotton cultivation and in research on plant diseases. Other agricultural plans contemplate sheep breeding on a large scale and the stimulation of rice growing in the Guayas Valley. The scientific production of rice in this Valley is being studied by technicians of the International Basic Economy Corporation, a Rockefeller institution. These scientists will also investigate the feasibility of the manufacture of paper pulp from native raw materials. A fishing industry could also be developed.
Thirteen hours from New York and seven-and-one-half hours from Miami by Panagra (Pan American-Grace Airways) DC-7B lies Guayaquil. Less than one more hour will bring air travelers to Quito. In addition to many picturesque sights visitors will see a nation on a long road with a great deal behind it and a great deal yet to go.
Native Indian woman with children