World Airways Teacher
Page 12________________STUDY UNIT_______________
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
1.	THE GOLDEN EQUATOR (Ecuador), 20 min., black and white. Produced by Hamilton-Wright Organization, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N. Y., under the auspices of the Government of Ecuador. This film, recently produced of little
known Ecuador, on top of the Andes, portrays the world’s largest banana production, the “home made” industry by Ecuador’s women hand-weaving more than 4,000,000 Panama hats a year. A visit is made to the famous Otavalo Indian tribe. Scenes of Quito, most perfectly preserved colonial city in South America, highlight this unusual him.
This film is presently being shown through the RKO-PATHE circuit and will not be available for school use until the theatrical run is completed.
2.	DOWN WHERE THE NORTH BEGINS, 22 min., sound, color. United World Government Films, 1445 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.
This him, produced by the U. S. Office of Inter-American Affairs describes Ecuador with its high mountains, tropic jungles and modern cities. It visualizes the charm of Quito, the farms and Indians, the sleeping volcanos and the pictorial beauty of the country.
3.	THIS IS ECUADOR, 20 min., black and white. United World Government Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y. Contains an analysis of the country’s resources, and stresses the strategic importance of the Galapagos Islands and their nearness to the Panama Canal. There are scenes of the modern city of Guayaquil in contrast to the Ecuador of old. Ecuador is pictured as a land with a richly-promising future.
4.	THE BRIDGE, 30 min., sound, black and white. New York University Film Library, 26 Washington Place, New York 3, N. Y.
Produced by Willard Van Dyke for the Foreign Policy Association.
Deals with the economic basis of trade relations between Latin America and the rest of the world. Develops the thesis that air transportation and travel will probably play a larger part than anything else in modernizing the remote, inaccessible regions of Latin America.
5.	ROADS SOUTH, 20 min., sound, black and white. United World Government Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York, N. Y.
Produced by Julien Bryan for the U. S. Office of Inter-American Affairs.
Compares various modes of transportation in the Latin-American countries and explains why airways have been widely developed. Points out the relationship of transportation problems to the development of resources and higher living standards.
Motion Pictures
6.	ROUND SOUTH AMERICA, 57 min., sound, color, Pan American World Airways Sales Promotion Dept., 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City, New York. This film is one of the “Pan American Wings Over the World” series. In this film we take a trip by air completely around South America, visiting all the major cities and scenic points from the Panama Canal to Buenos Aires. Included is a colorful sequence depicting life in Ecuador and scenes are shown of Quito, high in the Andes Mts. It is suggested that teachers could use this film as background resource material in the social studies to introduce the topic of South America and then show only the sequence on Ecuador to highlight that topic when that region is being studied.
Filmstrips
1.	LANDS AND PEOPLE OF THE MIDDLE ANDES-ECUADOR, BOLIVIA and PERU. 40 frames, color, with captions. Society for Visual Education, 1345 Diver-sey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Describes life in tropical forests, high plateaus, and deserts. Shows scenes of the ancient and modern cities.
2.	ECUADOR, 54 frames, silent with title frames, black and white. Stillfilm, Inc., 35 So. Raymond Ave., Pasadena, Cal. Pictures are shown of Guayaquil and the
Guayas River. The life of the people of the country is depicted as well as some of their industries — panama hats, cocoa.
3.	ECUADOR, 39 frames, silent, black and
white. Society for Visual Education, 1345
Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Includes photographs showing contemporary life, natural resources and historic landmarks.
Recordings
In production, by Folkways Records and Service Corporation, 117 West 46th St., New York City, a 33-1/3 rpm long-playing record on life in Ecuador, “Five Eggs,” from “Ride With the Sun,” published by Mc-Graw Hill Co., 330 West 42nd Street, New York City.
“Five Eggs” is one of a series of authentic folktales and stories of all the countries of the United Nations, sponsored by delegates to the U. N., and edited by Harold Cour-lander, currently working with the United Nations. This record will be a story-telling record, following the text in the book.
It is planned not only to enrich the basic reading program but also to provide children with literature for enjoyment, and to extend their horizons—for the exploratic^ and for a better understanding of life ^ other countries.
Tape recordings of Ecuadorian typical music can be obtained by writing Panagra’s Public Relations office.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
LOCATION . . . Ecuador is on the northwest coast of South America between Colombia and Peru, occupies a region where the Andes split into two ranges. Located on the equator, the country has a climate which varies greatly between the uplands and the plains. Quito, the capital, is less than 3i/2 hours by air from Panamá. The Galapagos Islands, famous for their giant tortoises, are a part of Ecuador 3 hours by air west. These islands have a wonderful climate, are primitive and as yet undiscovered by tourists.
CHARACTERISTICS ... In Quito the sun rises at about 6:00 a.m. every morning because the city is on the equator; it is always cool here but quite comfortable. Quaintly beautiful, the city is filled with wonderful Spanish colonial architecture and art. Its streets are steep and colorful. The country descends from the grandeur of the Andes to the tropical city of Guayaquil, on the Rio Guayas, where hyacinths float on the river. For wonderful scenery, a taste of ancient civilization, a touch of deep-sea fishing, try Ecuador, where North Americans are extremely welcome.
POPULATION • • • 3,619,349, about half that of Texas.
SIZE ... 275,936 square miles, somewhat larger than Texas.
CAPITAL ■ • • Quito, a city of 250,000, slightly larger than Omaha, Nebraska.
GOVERNMENT.. . A Republic of 18 provinces and one insular territory, with a President, Vice President, Senate and Chamber of Deputies.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Panagra’s through-plane services “El Interamericano” (de luxe) and “El Pacifico” (tourist) , Guayaquil is only 13 hours from New York City and 7y2 hours from Miami. Quito is 14i/2 hours from New York and about 91/i, hours from Miami. Flying time between Quito and Guayaquil is only 50 minutes. By ship about 12 days from New York to Guayaquil.
The informatio?! presented above is from the PAA travel guide book “New Horizons,” now available in a fully revised new edition, with hard cover, published for PAA at $1.00 by SimoM arid Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82- countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographm illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar, to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.