Page T-4
PA/S[ AMERfCÆ/V
World Afnmrs Teacher
Round-The-World Sketches by Norman Rockwell
When the famous illustrator, Norman Rockwell traveled around the world, he said he wanted to see things like Trafalgar Square, the Eiffel Tower and the Taj Mahal, but his real purpose was to meet the people.
That he did, and the impressions of the people he met were set down in his sketch book in the style which has become so familiar to the American reading public in Saturday Evening Post covers, in the Four Freedoms series, and countless other illustrations.
Selections from the Rockwell sketch book are reproduced at the right and below.
At home in New England, Rockwell uses his friends and neighbors for models. On his trip around the world he used as models the people he encountered in the street — a Guardsman in London, a monkey trainer in India, a coffee peddler in Turkey, Hula girls on the beach in Hawaii.
All these and others have appeared in recent months in PAA advertising in the national magazines.
Rockwell’s painstaking method of operation involved not only the detailed sketches such as the samples shown here, but also hundreds of black and white and color photographs taken by a photographer who accompanied him for that purpose, and a complete record in motion picture film.
Upon his return home to Stockbridge, Massachusetts, where his studio is located in the upper floor of a business building. Rockwell went to work. The sketches and photographs became the reference material for paintings to illustrate the advertisements that have since appeared in the magazines.
The movie footage became material for use on television.
These results are evidence that Artist Rockwell achieved his objective of meeting the people and recording his impressions of
them with pen and brush. The same warml with which he portrays his New England neighbors in Saturday Evening Post covers is abundantly evident in his portrayals of his neighbors around the world.
NORMAN ROCKWELL'S ROUND-THE-WORLD NEIGHBORS—In the panel above, a Guardsman remains stiffly at attention despite the adoring gaze of an admirer; tourists in Paris have a division of interest; a coffee peddler in Turkey with his coffee machine strapped to his back critically examines a Rockwell sketch; Rockwell records his impre^ sions of a camel reluctantly getting to his feet, of a sukiyaki dinner in Japan, of Waikilj Beach at Honolulu. At left is a special version of the Rockwell signature. In the pane? below is another view of the Guardsmen, and below, left, some neighbors in India.
