BY FLYING CUPPER TO
ECUADOR	Page 5
ating and healthy. Ambato is also the birthplace of Juan Montalvo, the best known writer of Ecuador.
Pleasant Surprises
Surprises will be many and pleasant. You
ill find in Quito, for instance, more than 60-odd churches the interiors of which are real museums and storehouses of enormous wealth. Quiteños will tell you about the fortune spent in building the church and monastery of San Francisco, and mention the story about King Phillip II of Spain when he was asked for more money to continue its construction. The monarch, according to the story, remained silent for a long time as he gazed out of the window. “What is troubling you, Your Majesty?” asked the priest who had come from Ecuador to request the money. “I am trying to see the towers of your church,” answered the King. “With all the money you have already spent on it, surely the towers should be high enough to be seen rising over the horizon.”
You will remember that Quito, though about 15 miles south of the equator, is always cool because of its altitude of some 9,000 feet; that Guayaquil, though warm, is one of the most active and clean tropical cities. At Quito, and elsewhere along the equator, the sun always sets at six in the evening regardless of the season. The coun-
try where, believe it or not, Panama hats are made — and this is a fact Ecuadoreans never fail to stress. The country with an “Avenue of Volcanoes”— as Humboldt called the two ranges of cones with their intervening valleys. A country where visitors enjoy the novelty of standing with one foot on the Northern Hemisphere and the other foot on the Southern Hemisphere — right on the crossing Latitude 0 degree without being haled before King Neptune’s Court.
And finally Ecuador is the country situated on that imaginary line called equator which has recently been found by a couple of scientists half a mile smaller than had been popularly assumed. Though losing a little around a man’s (or woman’s) personal equator might be a welcome occurrence, the shrinking of the planet around the waistline has to be greeted with concern. Ecuadoreans, of course, smile at it all.
Ecuador is certainly a land of contrasts. Within an hour and minutes you pass from the region of eternal snows, through the climate of Iceland, to the climate of the hot tropics, and at each descending step, you gladly strip off a layer of clothes. For Ecuador is, as the celebrated English historian Arnold Toynbee puts it “a whole world within the compass of a single country.”
OTAVALO — In the most beautiful region of the Province of Imbabura, four hours from Quito by highway, is the city of Otavalo, the centre of the native textile industry. After the capital of Quito, Otavalo is the city most visited by North American tourists. It is famous for its Saturday fairs at which native groups from the entire Province congregate.
Ecuador’s Economy and Trade
By Lou A. Phillips
The people of Ecuador comprise two strongly contrasted groups. One group, largely Indian, is self-sufficient, unmoved by sentiments of nationality and quite uninterested in foreign commerce. The other, largely mestizo, is strongly conscious of nationality and commercially active. The first group occupies the high basins of the Andes while the second group occupies the coastal region on the borders of the Pacific. As a
result the political center of the country is located in the midst of the Indian communities of the Andes whereas the economic center of the country is on the coast. Quito, the Capital, is situated where the problems of foreign commercial and political relations seem remote; while Guayaquil, the chief commercial city, is located on a navigable river easily accessible to the sea.
The high basins of Ecuador were already
occupied by a dense population of sedentary Indians before the Spanish conquest. Shortly before the Europeans arrived on the scene, the Incas had extended the boundaries of their Empire northward to include Quito. But the distance which separated this northernmost region from the capital at Cuzco was so great that communications were difficult to maintain and the power of the central authority was established only because the Inca himself spent much of his time in Quito. The Inca Empire was threatened with division and internal discord at the time when the Spaniards reached the shores of Peru. Except for temporary landings on the coast, Ecuador was not entered by the Spaniards until after the conquest of Peru. No great gold deposits were found -in Ecuador and the Spaniards pushed on leaving Ecuador isolated and poor. During the colonial period Quito was administered first from Lima and later from Bogota. When the Wars of Independence freed the colonies from Spain, Quito was included with Colombia and Venezuela in a “Greater Colombia” which Simon Bolivar attempted to form and administer from Bogota. The collapse of Bolivar’s state left the more remote parts, Venezuela and Ecuador, to announce their independence.
Throughout the highland region of Ecuador the forms of Spanish and Indian life are strangely mixed. Only in Quito and Cuenca are there many important numbers of people with Spanish ancestors, and these are either officeholders in the government or landowners who have large private properties. On the private estates are many villages of Indian tenants who pay rent to the owners. But the land is not all divided into private holdings as there are many Indian landowning communities practicing their traditional communal form of tenure. The economic life is for the most part the production of foods for local subsistence, but from both the private estates and the Indian communities cattle are sold regularly, though in small numbers, outside the region. The animals descend on the hoof over the mountain trails and must be fattened on the lowland pastures before they are marketed.
The Commercial Heart
Unlike the inhabitants of the highlands, the people of the coastal region are engaged part of the time in the production of commodities for export. The part of the coastal region of greatest commercial importance to Ecuador is the lowland north and east of Guayaquil, and its extension along the eastern shore of the Gulf of Guayaquil. This belt of lowland country, forty or fifty miles wide, lies south of the equator, between the coastal hilly belt and the base of the Andes. The leading products which come from the “Guayas Lowland” are cacao, coffee and cattle.
Cacao is the nation’s principal export crop, usually accounting for one-fourth to one-third of the value of all exports. In recent years, production has been in excess of 40 million pounds annually. The Ecuadorean product is of high quality and almost all of it is marketed abroad. Shipment of cacao, the largest business of Guayaquil,