World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 8
PAMDDXICAl IS THE WORD FDH QUITO WHERE WDIVHERS NEVER EEASE
By BILL CLEMMENS
QUITO, Eucador — There seems to be no end to the many wonders in this modern Shangri-la.
One of the strangest paradoxes in all of South America, Quito is a fairyland city of enchantment more than two miles above sea level and practically on the equator, where spring - like weather and flowers abound the year around, where the sun rises and sets practically at six every morning and evening, and where the tempo is that of a by-gone age.
Now less than an eight hour flight from Miami, this former capital of the ancient Kingdom of Quito, discovered by the Spaniards in 1534, is being re-discovered by tourists.
A walk through Quito’s narrow cobblestone streets is a rewarding excursion into the past. Outside the museums, in churches, monasteries and other buildings of another era are priceless paintings and architectural wonders that leave you breathless.
One of the more popular tours takes you through the busy market place to Panecillo (little bread loaf hill) where the Incas worshipped their Sun God, the old Spanish Colonial section of La Ronda, which to this day preserves its air of mystery, romance and intrigue, the Cathedral and ancient churches, the fashionable residential suburb of Mariscal Sucre and the souvenir and handicraft shops in the center of town.
By far one of the most impressive sights is the church and monastery of San Francisco, which cost the Spanish colonies a fortune to build. In the cloisters of this famous monastery, there is a fortune in art by some of the best Ecuadorian painters and sculptors.
Quito is a rubbernecker’s delight. It has enough sights to leave you in a daze for days. Some of these actually have to be seen to be believed. The snow-capped volcanos around the city, the golden altar and richly ornamented interior of the Church of La Compania, the huge, green domed Cathedral and the sprawling colonnaded Government palace are only a few. And you would never forgive yourself if you left without seeing the outstanding examples of 17th and 18th century art in the museum which was once the stately mansion of a Spanish nobleman, or the colorful native fairs just outside town.
A tourist finding himself in this lofty capital, now that Panagra (Pan American-Grace Airways) has stepped-up its direct tourist flights from Miami to Quito, can live like a millionaire at prices that would shame a pauper, and do things he never dreamed possible in such remote surroundings.
Out for an evening’s entertainment, you’ll probably wind up dining and dancing at cabarets such as the Fiesta High Life or Pigalle, which are never crowded and where there’s never a minimum or a cover charge. With only a few dollars you’ll have enough
to keep you dancing ’til dawn, the altitude nothwithstanding.
While Quito may not be the foremost bargain paradise in the world, the potential value of the dollar here is nothing short of incredible. At the current exchange one dollar will get you 171/2 sucres. A few hundred of these silver coins are more than enough to take care of your hotel and food bill for a few days and a thousand can provide more than enough in the way of a short vacation.
For the tourist or short-stay visitor, there are several good restaurants and hotels with a truly international fare where you will find almost anything your heart, or stomach, desires. Ecuadorian cuisine is well spiced and fairly exotic but a real treat as prepared in some of the better places.
Some special gourmet delights, which are recommended by Panagra pilots to make your mouth water are locro, a stew soup of green corn, potatoes and cheese; llapingacho, an omelet made of potatoes and cheese with a fried egg on top; and humitas, tamales wrapped in green banana leaves.
Quito also has its share of sports and social clubs. The American Club, appropriately enough, is restricted to “gringos,” and both residents and visitors are always welcome. The Jockey Club is for golf and tennis players and the Club Pichincha is strictly for another kind of sport, the bridge and canasta player.
According to the latest statistics, this friendly little country of a little over three million souls has 10 persons per square kilometer, one of the lowest population density figures in all the Americas. Of the country’s total territory, only 2i/2 percent has actually been developed, the other 97i/2 percent is still virgin mountains, jungles, and arid lands untouched by human hands.
Anyone interested in developing this vast area or just visiting the other, is advised to visit his nearest Ecuadorian consulate, obtain a tourist card good for 90 days, and hop a Panagra plane for Quito.
A word of caution, however, should be given to all visitors. Be careful not to praise
anything about the country in the presence of an Ecudorian because otherwise you’re likely to find yourself presented with whatever you praised.
While it is true that no one has left the country with a snow-capped volcano, a beautiful church or convent, or even the impressive equestrian statue of the Great Liberator Simon Bolivar, there are many who have been the somewhat embarrassed but pleased recipients of oil paintings, “Panama” hats, hand-carved wooden statues and even a microscopic landscape painted on the head of a pin which they had casually admired.
All things being considered, this friendly little country astride the equator is certainly one of the best buys for anyone hankering for something really unusual at prices he can well afford.
WARDROBE WEIGHT GUIDE
How to select wardrobe items so that we’ll have enough, but not exceed 66 pounds —or 44 pounds if we go tourist?
Here is a table of average weights which will help to estimate:
Average weights of clothing y|
MEN	LBS.	WOMEN LBj	
Tweed Suit	4	Suit	21/2
Worsted Suit	21/2	Dress	1
Flannel Slacks	l3/4	Sweater	Vi
Shoes (1 pair)	4	Blouse	1/4
Shirt	Vi	Skirt	3A
Sweater	3A	Shoes	l
Socks (6 pairs)	Vi	Swim Suit	i/4
Neckties (6)	lA	Bra, Slip, Girdle	11/4
Handkerchiefs		Nightgown	
(1 doz.)	%	Hose (6 pairs)	1/4
		Robe	1
The type of clothing		; to be taken for	use
in Quito is that which would be worn in the United States in the spring or fall —temperatures range from 50 to 65 degrees. The ladies should have woolen suits and dresses with fur jacket or topcoat. Men need woolen suits and topcoats. On the coast, at Guayaquil and Playas, tropical clothes are worn, and a swimming suit is essential.
QUITO—El Pacifico, of Panagra, which is the affiliated company of Pan American World Airways on the west coast of South America, loading cargo at the Mariscal Sucre Airport.