SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
PROBLEM: Why is Ecuador called a land of contrasts?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	Study of the ABC countries of South America aroused a desire to know something about other South American countries also.
2.	Students like to study about a country through which the Equator passes.
3.	Articles of interest about Ecuador in the current news.
4.	A desire to find out more about the many problems confronting Ecuador today.
5.	Stories about the Incas are familiar to many of the students.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: two weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	Study of the equator and the effect it has on people and resources.
2.	Discussion of border disputes taking place in South America.
3.	Stories of the Inca empire and ancient culture.
4.	Use of movies and strip films listed in this issue.
5.	The books listed in the bibliography may also be used to arouse interest in Ecuador.
. Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How does the ancient culture of Ecuador contribute to some of its current problems?
2.	If Ecuador has many natural resources, why are most of the people poor?
3.	Much that goes on in Ecuador is of interest to the United States. Why?
4.	What resources have been developed recently which will help to change the economic status of Ecuador?
5.	Who are some of the people who have helped to build Ecuador’s culture and history?
6.	How will the airplane help not only to modernize Ecuador but to build up trade relations with the United States?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social studies: location; effect of the equator on climate, resources and lives of the people; how it got its name; flag; Quito, the capital, second highest in the world; government, republic with a President, Senate and Chamber of Deputies; plane has shortened traveling time to 14i/2 hours from New York; cities: Guayaquil, Ambato, Cuenca, Riobamba, Loja; historical background: conquered by Spaniards in 1534, gained independence from Spain in 1822, became a republic in 1830; Galapagos Islands belong to Ecuador; Andes
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
ECUADOR	Pag© *
GALAPAGOS ISLANDS —Approximately 700 miles from the Ecuadorean coast, just below the Equator lies the Archipeligo of Colon, or Galapagos Islands, a possession of Ecuador. Famous for the Galapagos land tortoises, and other animals which exist nowhere else on earth, the islands once were visited by Charles Darwin. At the present time the Galapagos Islands are a favorite region for European and American fishing fleets. The Archipeligo is composed of thirteen large islands and a great many tiny islands of volcanic origin.
Mountains, earthquakes and volcanoes; products: cacao, coffee, ivory nuts from which buttons are made; Panama hats; University of Quito; church and monastery of San Francisco; people of Ecuador; textile industry; growth of tourist industry; national heroes: Eugenio Espejo and others.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	Study new words explained in this issue.
b.	Literature — José Joaquin Olmedo and Andrés Belo, poets; Juan Montalvo, essayist; Juan Leon Mero, author of the National Anthem; read the books mentioned in the Bibliography in this issue.
c.	Oral communication: talking over the idea of living on the Equator; reporting on books, movies and film strips; bringing information to the class; comparing Ecuador with other South American countries; discussing current events.
d.	Written communication: writing imaginary stories about the 500 lb. tortoises on Galapagos Islands; or how it feels to stand with one foot in the Northern Hemisphere and the other in the Southern Hemisphere; or going alligator hunting; or the story of an ivory nut; or all about “Jipajapa” (Panama hats); stories of Ecuador’s heroes; reports on industries and trade; tales of the old Inca civilization.
3.	Science: the Equator and its effect on people and crops, snow on the Equator, the sun rises and sets at 6 o’clock every day; Quito, the city of “Eternal Spring”; hyacinths float on the river; volcanoes and earthquakes; jungle lands; home of the cormorant which is found nowhere else; highlands and lowlands; “land of tropical heat and perpetual snow.”
4.	Art: of the ancient Incas; Spanish paintings and statues in churches, many of which are like museums; costumes of the Indians; architecture
—	developed to a high degree; famous for murals, wood engraving, sculptors, painters; gold inlay work; San Andres
—	first school of arts and crafts in South America; antique silver; Indian ornaments; rugs and textiles; embroideries and pottery; the church of San Francisco houses many art treasures; Museum of Colonial Art; religion is depicted in all art.
5.	Music: Ecuador Indian music is melancholy; the quena (flute) is used; Quito Conservatory; Guayaquil Conservatory Symphony of 65 pieces.
6.	Mathematics: time by plane and by ship . . . 141/2 hours as compared to 10 days; sucre is the monetary unit; graphs to show heights of mountain peaks; distribution of population; changes in crop production and exports and imports; study of degrees from 0° latitude; time line showing changes in country from 1534 to present time; metric system based on arc