World Aîruavs Teacher
Page 6	STUDY UNIT
has dominated Ecuador’s foreign trade and internal finances since the early Nineteenth Century. Its favored position in world markets is due to the fact that manufacturers of chocolate candy believe that it possesses an especially desirable flavor. Cultivation of cacao trees demand a minimum of attention and little labor is needed except at harvest time. So great are the returns that many planters have been able to live in luxury in foreign cities, leaving the operation of their estates to paid managers. As a result of this situation however, much of the income from cacao sales has been spent outside of Ecuador instead of being invested in new plantations. Thus the area devoted to this crop has not been greatly increased since 1916. Before 1916 Ecuador supplied almost 16% of the world cacao production. As a result of plant diseases, production has declined since about 1920. In 1928 Ecuador supplied only 4% of the world cacao production and has not changed significantly since. Ecuador does supply about 13% of the total Latin American production of cacao however.
Some of the acreage formerly devoted to cacao has been transferred to other crops. The second most important Ecuadorean crop is coffee. It is of high quality and constitutes about one-seventh of total exports in terms of value. Quantitatively, about 30 million pounds are produced annually. Areas devoted to banana production are also increasing. Bananas are sold to Chile, Peru and the United States with both production and export mainly controlled by foreign companies. Other agricultural products grown in Ecuador include sugar, cotton, tobacco, corn, rice, potatoes and a wide range of other vegetables; pineapples, oranges, lemons and other fruits. The production of most of these crops is consumed almost entirely within the country. Sugar is not produced in sufficient quantities to meet domestic requirements and some must
be imported. Only small quantities of cotton are exported.
Abundance of grazing lands in the coastal and interior regions provides ample forage for cattle. The raising of cattle is the chief pastoral industry. Sheep are raised in the highlands. Of the pastoral products, however, only cattle hides are exported. The Ecuadoran forests yield a number of products including tagua nuts (vegetable ivory), rubber, annatto seed (the source of an edible vegetable coloring), red mangrove (a source of tannin), and kapok. The most important forest product is the tagua nut, the fruit of a palm fern, used in the manufacture of buttons.
The mining of gold and petroleum production are the most important mineral industries of the nation. Gold ore exports in cyanide precipitates are valued at about 10% of the total exports of the country. Petroleum production, controlled mainly by British companies, is marketed abroad for the most part in crude form. Other minerals found in Ecuador are silver, platinum, copper, coal, lead, zinc, corundum, magnesium, sulfur, marble and salt, but for the most part the deposits have been only slightly developed.
Although Ecuador is primarily dependent upon the production and export of agricultural products, efforts have been made in recent years to increase industrial activity in the country. The Government encourages the development of domestic industry, not only by imposing high import duties, but also by the granting of special privileges, such as exemption from duties on raw materials or remission of taxation for a period of years.
The domestic market in Ecuador is not large, and manufacturing is confined chiefly to consumer goods. Few industrial raw materials are produced within the country, and consequently most of these must be im-
SAN ANTONIO DEL PICHINCHA — Twenty miles to the north of Quito is this monument which marks the crossing of the Equator. It was erected in 1936 by the "France-Amérique" Committee in honor of the French Academicians who arrived at Quito at the end of the 18th century to make the measurements which disclosed the form of the earth. Five kilometers distant from the monument are two hills which the Incas called uMarca" in their language, signifying that the hills marked off one-half of the world.
ported. Moreover, inadequate transportation facilities add to the cost of commodities produced. As a result industrial development has not been rapid. In light consumer goods, however, a number of industries have been able to offer effective competition to similar imported commodities. Among these are drugs and medicines, toilet preparations, confectionery, biscuits, rubber goods, rayon fabrics and cement.
The most important manufacturing industry in Ecuador is the textile industry, which in recent years has developed considerably. Most of the mills produce cotton goods, using principally machinery of British manufacture. The output of the domestic industry is consumed largely within the country, although small quantities are exported to Colombia. Since domestic production of cotton is not sufficient to meet local requirements, some must be imported. The manufacture of toquilla (Panama) hats has in the past been a leading Ecuadoran industry, but general trade conditions, a decreased demand for straw hats of all kinds, and competition from other sources have reduced the importance of the industry. The finest quality hats are made in Ma-nabi, Azuay, and Canar Provinces; medium quality hats for export to the United States are mostly from Cuenca. Other Ecuadoran manufactures include sugar, footwear, furniture, canned goods, emery powder, lard and edible oils. Alcohol, tobacco, salt and matches are government monopolies.
In foreign trade, Ecuador ranks ninth among the countries of South America. A considerable portion of Ecuadoran exports however, consists of petroleum and cyanide precipitates, which are under the control of foreign companies. Such financial returns to the foreign companies as are included in the sales value of these products do not represent purchasing power available to Ecuador, and therefore this trade does not provide foreign exchange in amounts commensurate with those reported in the trade returns. Vegetable and mineral products, including precious metals, predominate in exports from Ecuador. Imports consist of a wide variety of manufactured products and small quantities of raw and semi-manufactured materials. Until recently cotton manufactures ranked first in the nation’s import trade. Their share of total imports has declined greatly. The most important single import commodity in the machinery group is electrical machinery; in the iron and steel classification it is structural iron and steel. Wheat flour is the most important of the foodstuffs imported.
The United States is the leading supplier of commodities imported into Ecuador, but its share varies considerably. This same situation exists in the export field. In value, United States commerce with Ecuador is small, usually amounting to less than 1% of total United States trade with Latin America. As a market for United States merchandise, however, Ecuador has increased in importance, having taken a significantly larger share of the total sales to Latin America in recent years. Greater activity in Ecuador’s petroleum-extracting and gold-mining industries has been primarily responsible for this development. Ecuador