Pan American
World Arnmrs Teacher	Nov.-Dee., 1950
IDLEWILD’S AREA—The area of New York International Airport, 4,090 acres, is equivalent to the area of all Manhattan from Forty-second Street to the Battery, as shown by the white line.
AIRPORTS
(Continued from page 1)
on every continent in the world and on the world’s two largest oceans.
Latin America
In formulating plans for the establishment of Pan American’s services in the Caribbean and down the east coast of South America, the first areas to be developed, PAA had to determine between a land-plane and a seaplane operation. At that time (1927-1930) there were no land airports between San Juan, Puerto Rico and Belem, Brazil. In fact there were no railroads or highways in this area either and all transportation was by coastal steamer. The region was sparsely settled and with operation of only two or three trips a week, construction of the number of airports and emergency fields required for aircraft of the range then available was not commercially practicable. On the other hand, the route was ideal for seaplane operation in that the coast was flat, the rivers and inlets many, and a seaplane could make a safe emergency landing at almost any point. While land airports owned and operated by the French existed below Natal, Brazil, many of them were some distance from the closest city. By using seaplanes Pan American was able to offer more attractive transportation than its competitors in this part of South America by delivering the passengers and cargo close to the center of each community. Accordingly a decision was made in favor of seaplane operation. At the overnight stops of Belem, Fortaleza, Bahia and Rio de Janeiro in Brazil shore facilities were constructed so that the proper maintenance of aircraft could be accomplished and the passengers cleared in a minimum of time. At inter-
mediate points barge facilities were established as they were considerably cheaper than shore facilities. The number of passengers handled were few and in those sections of the route subject to hurricane conditions the barges could easily be towed to sheltered parts of the harbor.
Large and steady increases in both passengers and cargo by the late Nineteen-Thirties demanded that new schedules be initiated. In 1939 the passenger volume was six times greater than the nine previous years. The number of air express shipments during
1939	were 10,000 more than those of 1938. During these nine years land aircraft had been developed which offered greater speed, range and carrying capacity. Therefore in
1940	landplanes were put into service on trans-Caribbean routes between Miami and the Canal Zone and between New Orleans and the Canal Zone. Pan American’s affiliate Company in South America, Pan Amer-ican-Grace Airways (always a land plane operator since that company’s routes on the west coast of South America and across the Andes to Buenos Aires were overland) added more landplanes. The shift from sea to land equipment called for many new routes and new or improved airport facilities.
Except for a few large cities, Pan American was required to build its own airports and airport buildings. Even when governments or municipalities devoted funds to such construction the carrier usually was required to contribute funds or to lend money against reduction of future rents and fees and to participate in the construction, operation and maintenance of the field and its structures. Few airports had ever been built in the tropics and little was known of the conditions which would be encountered. Locations had to be determined both
by aerial surveys and by ground exploration parties. Construction parties at each airport had to live off the land for the most part until air service was established. Heat and dampness sapped the strength of engineers until the only driving force remaining was the determination that the airline would go through.
Illustrative of the problems encountered was the construction of Barreiras Airport, part of a chain of bases through the interior of Brazil which cut about one thousand miles and a full day’s travel off the early route from the United States to Rio de Janeiro. A glance at the map of Brazil will show the necessity for establishing a straight line route from Belem on the Amazon to Rio over 1,500 miles away instead of following the coastline of the Brazilian “hump” which is a 2,500 mile arc. The length of the straight line route demanded at least one refueling point approximately halfway down. The spot chosen, called Barreiras, was strategically the logical point for such a break, but the actual installation of necessary facilities in such country seemed an impossible task.
One hardly realizes that within a few hundred miles of the Brazilian coast, there are hundreds of thousands of square miles on which white men have hardly set foot. All material had to be brought inland to Barreiras from Belem first by rail and then by boat and raft. The expedition was a race against the end of the rainy season when the water would be too low to float barges over the upper reaches of the river leading to Barreiras. Collision with a sandbar capsized a raft with a tractor aboard. The tractor was raised, disassembled and dried out, reloaded and brought to Barreiras in time to assist in constructing the first temporary runway. After the temporary runway had been constructed a supply plane arrived and it was found that the original runway site would have to be abandoned because of a bluff at one end which due to tropical growth was not visible to the construction crew. Aerial surveys were made and a new site was selected on a platform eight hundred feet above the temporary runway and one thousand feet above the river. Between the river basin and the plateau was a wall of rock which the engineers on first survey believed to be insurmountable. When constructed, the supply road from the river to the plateau was so overhung with cliffs that trucks could proceed along it only after their tops had been removed. Inasmuch as the tractors had to be used for the most part to tow material up the road the runways were constructed entirely by Indian labor. The only source of water was found to be halfway up the cliff and additional pumping equipment had to be brought in by plane to raise the water to the airport level. Each item of the construction of the road, airport and terminal facilities would be a story in itself, but it is sufficient to say that in September 1940, six months after the expedition had left the coast of Brazil, a modern airport was available including housing for the airport staff and overnight hotel facilities.
Pan American also improved or constructed numerous airports in the Caribbean area, Mexico and Central America. For