Nov.-Dee., 1950
elude all the areas under British protection, and had no specified boundaries. To regularize the position, therefore, these protected areas were annexed to His Majesty’s Dominions in 1901, and the boundaries of the Colony thus constituted were defined by an Order-in-Council dated the 22nd October, 1906, and have since remained unchanged.
Ashanti, the Northern Territories and Togoland
The immigrants whom the Portuguese found living in the country at the end of the fifteenth century gradually developed settled habits, and entered into permanent occupation of roughly-defined tracts of country. In the coastal area, development took place by way of small autonomous units under European protection, but in the interior it took the form of confederation for offensive and defensive purposes.
Of such confederations by far the biggest and most highly organized was that of the Ashantis, who, as their military resources increased, demanded a larger and more direct share of the trade with the European merchants. These demands were resisted by the coastal peoples and brought the Ashantis into conflict with the British. Continuous friction led, in the nineteenth century, to a series of wars (including Sir Garnet Wolseley’s campaign against Kumasi in 1874), and to the annexation of Ashanti to the Crown in 1901. Prempeh the deposed King, was allowed to return from exile in 1924, and in 1935 the Confederation was restored and Prempeh’s successor, Osei Agyeman Prempeh II, was proclaimed Asantehene, the Ashanti title of the head of the Ashanti nation.
The Northern Territories came under British influence in 1897, after the conclusion of treaties with the chiefs and after international settlements with France and Germany. In 1922 a portion of the former German Colony of Togoland was placed under British mandate. It is administered by the Government of the Gold Coast, which now presents an annual report on the affairs of the trusteeship territory to the United Nations.
Since the pacification of the country under British rule and the establishment of its boundaries early in the present century, rapid and numerous changes have been made in its way of life.
The export of cocoa and, to a less extent, the development of mining have brought a prosperity which has made possible the construction of railways and roads and a modern harbour; the organization of a highly efficient post, telegraph and telephone system ; the installation of pipe-borne water supplies and of electric light in the more important towns; large-scale health measures and a great expansion of the educational system.
Contact with modern European civilization has brought many new vocations—the teacher, the lawyer, the minister of religion, the mechanic, the storekeeper, to mention only a few. But the great bulk of the people are farmers, either growing cocoa or other crops for export or tilling the soil for the subsistence of themselves and their families. Along the coast there is a highly-organized fishing industry carried on with dug-out
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
WEIGHING I N—A native mother brings her child to a health center for examination, and to receive instruction in baby care.
canoes and gear of entirely local design and manufacture. The fish is consumed locally. Large quantities are dried for sale inland; the value has been estimated at over £1,000,000 per annum.
Although many European trades have been introduced and a diversity of cheap articles of European or other manufacture is imported, many indigenous crafts and occupations still survive as an important feature of the economic life of the community. Food crops apart, there is a large internal trade in such articles as fibres, mats, hats, calabashes for use as domestic utensils, etc., earthenware, cooking pots, leather work, gold ornaments, carved stools and figures, dug-out canoes, charcoal and salt. Kola and tobacco are among the luxuries
5
which the Gold Coast itself can provide; the production of the latter is increasing, but large quantities of leaf tobacco and of cigarettes are imported.
In recent times there has been a steady improvement in the layout, sanitation and housing of many of the towns and villages. As soon as his means allow, the African turns his attention to improving his living conditions, and concrete dwelling-houses of considerable size and substantial construction are now common. In most parts of the country, it is true, more primitive structures of “swish” or puddled mud are predominant ; but improved planning and methods of construction have made this type of housing more comfortable and healthy than it was in the past.
Much of the progress the country has made in education and in other directions has been due to the work of missionaries, who, from the early days of European contacts with West Africa, have endured many hardships in the service of the community. Christian Missions play a very important part in the life of the Gold Coast to-day, and their influence reaches the remotest villages. The number of the adherents of Christian Missions and Churches is estimated at about 440,000 and there are nearly 3,000 churches and chapels in the Gold Coast.
As a result of progress in education, Africans are taking positions of importance and responsibility in the Government, commercial and other fields. With the opening of the Gold Coast University College, more local candidates for these positions will now become available. Already there are more than 275 Africans holding Senior appointments in Government service alone, including three Puisne Judges, Magistrates, Administrative, Education and Police officers, Doctors, Engineers and many others.
SCHOOL—Educational teams are teaching the principles of community development. Here the lesson is how to make a medicine ball from strips of canvas and locally collected kapok.