Nov.-Dee., 1950
Pan Am.m'can
Wo rid Airways Teacher
11
FIJI ISLANDS—The airport on the Fiji Islands is located near the capital city, Suva, which also is headquarters for British possessions in the South Pacific.

cessfully carried out. At the request of the United States War Department Miami was chosen as the domestic terminal of the route which stretched to Leopoldville, Belgian Congo via Bathurst, Liberia and Lagos, Nigeria. In Bathurst and Lagos, new ports of call, existing facilities had to be checked and improved. No standard marine terminal was available at Leopoldville and planes had to be moored at buoys anchored in the Congo some distance from shore. A river boat anchored to the shore served as a clearance terminal. The Belgian government maintained a good weather reporting service in the Congo. Meteorology service and additional radio communication with Nigerian and Liberian stations were set up.
During the summer of 1941 Pan American made an aerial survey of potential sites for bases in Liberia. Near Cape Mount on Fisherman’s Lake in the northwestern part of the country a site was found which was considered adequate for both a seaplane base and a land airport. Construction of Liberian facilities was accomplished under conditions not unlike those encountered in the creation of bases by Pan American in Latin America and the Pacific. A self-sufficient community had to be developed in the Liberian jungle. Everything had to be brought in from the outside—sewerage systems, water plants, electric generation and distribution facilities, gas storage and pumping equipment, kitchens, refrigeration units, automotive installations and housing ccommodations. A staff of a nearby church mission acted as a go-between between the airline and the people and hundreds of natives most of whom had no previous contact with American methods were put to work clearing jungle and helping Pan American construction crews.
An integral part of the Fisherman’s Lake
project was the preparation of a landing strip one and a half miles from the seaplane base. It was used as a transfer point for onward carriage of Clipper Cargo by land-planes. By the time both sea and landplane bases were put in commission military interests ■ envisaged them not only as a West African terminal for an air line to Egypt and Asia but also as a strategic pivot of a possible secondary route to the Middle East. The Fisherman’s Lake airport soon replaced Bathurst as the terminal for Liberian aerial activities.
Pan American’s airport program was greatly augmented during the war, particularly in the area from Miami southward along the Atlantic coast of South America, and in Africa, to provide ground facilities for air transport service which were of vital importance to the War effort.
In Africa Pan American selected sites for landing fields all across that dark continent. Alternative routes to take care of almost any contingency which might present itself were also mapped out. Pan American engineers equipped only with a supply of money were dropped from planes by parachute into trackless jungles. Their job was to obtain native labor and to carve out of the dense vegetation the beginnings of the chain of airfields which was to be used to maintain and service the great fleets of cargo planes which were endlessly winging their way to every point in the world where Allied forces were fighting.
The airport program was only one part of Pan American’s wartime activities. Prior to December 7, 1941 the airline had already done some preliminary work in pioneering what was later to become part of the great routes of the Air Transport Command. Pan American pilots ferried bombers to British Forces in the Middle East and organized Pan American Ferries Inc. with hundreds of experienced pilots to ferry planes to England. Upon the entrance of the United States into the war this operation was militarized, the pilots commissioned in the U. S. Army and the company dissolved. Pan American’s base at Dinner Key in Miami became an active naval transport and training center at which Pan American personnel trained flight engineers, mechanics, navigators and pilots for the U. S. Navy.
Pan American World Airways’ peacetime activities proved essential in wartime. Its wartime activities have become an integral part of the airline’s general experience which has long been the basis of one of the safest and most dependable systems of air transportation in the world.
ANSWERS TO GEOGRAPHICAL QUIZ
Canton Island—A corral atoll in the Phoenix Group in the Central Pacific, at approximately 2° S. Lat., 171° W. Long. Canton is under Anglo-American condominium, and is a way station for Flying Clipper service to the South Pacific.
Cape Verde Islands—A group of volcanic islands in the Atlantic, about 320 miles west of Cape Vert. The latter is a promontory at the westernmost point of Africa. Cape Verde Islands are under Portuguese rule.
Cyprus Island—A British colony in the Mediterranean, 60 miles west of the Syrian coast.
Gold Coast—A British area in West Africa, including the Gold Coast Colony and the Ashanti Colony. Accra is the Gold Coast Colony capital, and the air line stop. The name Gold Coast is derived from the fact that sands and mines along the coast once yielded considerable quantities of gold.
Kuwait—A principality on the northwest coast of the Persian Gulf, in the form of a wedge between Iraq and Saudi Arabia. It is desert territory, and its capital, A1 Kuwait, is an important stop on caravan routes, as it is also on the routes of Pan American World Airways System.
(Page 2)
Lebanon—A republic at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea, to the north of Palestine. Its capital, Beirut, is the air line stop.
New Caledonia—A French territory in the Southwest Pacific, at one time a penal colony. It consists of some half dozen islands plus a number of islet groups, and its capital is Noumea.
Senegal—A French territory in West Africa, part of French West Africa. Dakar is the Capital, and the air line stop.
Wake Island—Actually a group of three islets surrounding a lagoon in the North Pacific about 1500 miles east north east of Guam, Wake was colonized by Pan American World Airways employees who went there to establish a base for Pacific air service. Wake was captured by the Japanese in the opening days of the War.
Windward Islands—The islands which form the southern part of the Lesser Antilles, in the West Indies. Air line stops are at Martinique and St. Lucia, the former being French and the latter English. (The eastern group of the Society Islands in the South Pacific also is called Windward Islands.)