10
over the Atlantic by 1942 as the new land-craft were able to fly above weather and gave superior performance. However, the actual change-over did not occur until 1946. Landplanes brought reductions both in flight time and fares.
In making plans for trans-Atlantic operations Pan American was confronted with the lack of any adequate civil seaplane base on the north Atlantic coast of the United States. While plans for the construction of such facilities by municipalities were in progress at New York, Baltimore and Charleston none of these had reached a stage where they appeared likely to be in readiness in time for transatlantic survey flights which were planned for the summer of 1937. However in 1933 in anticipation of transatlantic operations Pan American had acquired its own seaplane base at Fort Washington, Long Island. This became the operating headquarters for the Atlantic Division until a new municipal airport at Baltimore was ready. Prior to 1935 Pan American had negotiated for marine facilities at this city and had aided in drawing up plans for the base.
The Atlantic Division conducted four preliminary survey and training flights from Port Washington to Bermuda in May and June 1937 and service was initiated on June 18. Operation of the Bermuda route provided experience for future transatlantic service that could not have been gained in any other way. It also provided experience for Pan American in the regular use of foreign owned maintenance facilities, weather and radio stations on a reciprocal basis, a situation which would be inevitably encountered in the operation of any transatlantic service. The British Overseas Aviation Corporation used Pan American facilities first at Port Washington and later at Baltimore while Pan American used British facilities at Bermuda.
Survey flights were made over the Atlantic in 1937. Forecasts for Atlantic flights were prepared on forms developed in the Pacific Division and used approximately the same forecasting technique. They were highly accurate missing arrival of the first survey flight at Newfoundland by only three minutes and at Foynes, Ireland by six. Pan American dispatched trained personnel and equipment to line station points and arrangements were made with foreign communications facilities which were to be relied upon for fueling and servicing of survey aircraft. While these flights were accomplished without incident, the experience gained in using the foreign bases pointed the way to certain practical improvements in the way of coordinating procedures, expansion of facilities and mutual indoctrination of the reciprocating organizations as to the best means for exchanging information. By 1939 all was ready for the delivery of the necessary equipment. On May 2, twelve years to the day after Lindbergh’s solo flight to Paris, the first commercial trans-Atlantic flight took off, via the Great Circle route.
Since flying boat operations over the Great Circle route via Newfoundland were not possible in winter and non-stop operation impossible, the company’s plan was to utilize the mid-Atlantic route via Bermuda, the Azores and Lisbon for winter opera-
Pa/v A,MF/rrcA,v
Wo rid A/ruavs Teacher
tions as well as for additional service during the summer months. As early as May 1933 Pan American had sent an operations expert to the Azores to study landing areas for flying boats and land planes and to report concerning icing conditions and general weather characteristics. Since no adequate seaplane base facilities existed at either Horta or Lisbon steps had to be taken to provide complete airport facilities, radio communication, meteorological service and fueling installations. The Portuguese government was not prepared to do this and approved Pan American’s provision of the desired facilities and services as long as the base facilities were operated and administered by a company of Portuguese nationality. Requirements for facilities at points other than Lisbon and Horta presented fewer problems. In general the facilities of local airports provided by government authorities or otherwise available were considered adequate. Pan American service to France was operated to Marseilles which had the most complete and thoroughly equipped seaplane base in Europe.
War disrupted all schedules. To avoid operations in a war zone both Southampton and Marseilles were eliminated as terminal points. The mid-Atlantic service terminated at Lisbon and the north Atlantic route at Foynes. With the passage of the Neutrality Act of 1939 however Ireland was proclaimed to be in a combat zone and operations there prohibited. By the Spring of 1940 Pan American decided that in the interests of securing added cargo and greater regularity of schedules an alternate route was needed for use during winter months. The route selected was from New York via San Juan, Puerto Rico, Belem and Natal, Brazil and Portuguese Guinea to Lisbon. An engineer was sent to Portuguese Guinea on the west coast of North Africa to survey a potential landing area at Bolama. A satisfactory site was found and negotiations were subsequently conducted with the Portuguese Government for permission to use it and territorial waters as a port of call. An adequate base was prepared including refueling and servicing facilities, overnight accommodations and a radio station.
In May 1940 with the completion of a special passenger terminal and marine base at New York’s Municipal Airport, La-Guardia Field, Pan American transferred its operations from Baltimore to New York. The great majority of trans-Atlantic flights leave directly from New York although some also stop at Philadelphia and Boston. As landplanes replaced seaplanes on the Atlantic route and traffic continued to increase Pan American facilities at LaGuardia Field became extremely crowded. In 1949 delivery of giant double-decked Boeing Stratoliners made it necessary for the airline to transfer operations to an airport whose runways would be capable of taking the 142,500 pound equipment fully loaded. By this time however, New York’s great new International Airport was opened to commercial traffic. At present the doubledecked aircraft leave from New York International Airport. Other planes still depart from LaGuardia Field although ultimately all overseas traffic from New York will operate from the new airport.
New York International Airport is the
Nov.-Dee., 1950
largest commercial airport in the world. Its forty-nine hundred acres are equal to all of Manhattan Island from Forty-Second Street to the Battery. Runways totaling over ten miles in length are built to accommodate the largest transport aircraft in use or in prospect. Well planned facilities for the Federal Inspection Services permit quick clearance of air travelers and air cargoes from abroad. In the terminal building are special services to meet the needs of overseas passengers. An expressway leading from the city to the airport joins a mile and a half long entrance road leading to the terminal. This road travels beneath the first underpass in the world over which planes may taxi. The underpass supports two bridges capable of handling 300,000 pound planes without interference with the flow of vehicular traffic. The present terminal building eventually will be replaced by gigantic terminal construction designed to make the airport a city within a city. By 1960 it is expected that New York International Airport will be capable of handling one thousand plane movements daily.
At present there are five hangars at the field, three of which are the world’s largest steel arch hangars. With a span of 300 feet and a depth of 217 feet each can accommodate four of the new Boeing Stratocruisers. Eventually hangars costing $8,000,000 are to be built for Pan American World Airways at the airport. Special approach lights and instrument landing devices permit operations under some of the most adverse weather conditions. Take-offs and landings have become routine under conditions of extremely low visibility and “ceiling”.
Other countries on the Atlantic routes of Pan American also are in the midst of airport projects. At London the British are completing the second of a three stage program which will result in one of the most up to date airports servicing international flights in the world. At Amsterdam, Schipohl Airport which was destroyed during the last war has been rebuilt into one of Europe’s leading air terminals. At Paris’ Orly Field, French officials are also in the second of a three stage development project for a large international airport nine miles south of Paris. At Rome’s Ciampino Airport, eleven miles southeast of the city passenger handling and terminal facilities have been enlarged and rehabilitated as part of a general airport improvement program in Italy.
Operation Africa
In June 1941 the Atlantic Division was called upon to undertake an assignment of the greatest importance to the national defense—the provision of an air transport service to Africa. Pan American was especially qualified for this task. It already had landplane and seaplane bases at the Caribbean and South American points on the route to Africa. The task at those bases merely was to provide additional facilities for handling larger aircraft. Pan American already had secured landing rights in Portuguese Guinea incident to flights to and from Portugal and as part of an eventual route to Capetown, Union of South Africa, which being a British Dominion was in a prohibited zone of operation at the time. Negotiations to secure the necessary additional operating rights in Africa were sue-