Pajv American
s	Worio Afnmvs Teacher
ALASKA—The airport at Juneau, Alaska, is located at the foot of Mendenhall Glacier.
develop an Alaskan service knowing the day would yet come when the utilization of a northern route to the Orient would be needed. Alaska too, supplied unique airport building experience. Typical of such projects was the airport at Watson Lake. Supplies for this field had to be carried by boat to Wrangel, Alaska, then by river steamship two hundred miles to Telegraph Creek, British Colombia. From there goods were carried over a portage of seventy-five miles to Dease Lake. On the lake, builders had to construct a small shipyard and build a sternwheeler and three tunnel boats for river transportation which hauled the supplies two hundred miles down the Dease River to the Laird River, finally completing the journey over thirty-five miles of specially built road to Lake Watson.
Today speedy, dependable air service is available to Ketchikan, Juneau, Fairbanks, Anchorage and Nome, Alaska in addition to Whitehorse, Canada which is served en route to Nome.
In planning bases for the 8,746 mile airway across the Pacific via Hawaii, it was apparent that while Honolulu and Manila offered the facilities available in any well developed center of population (the principal task there being to install radio and specialized base facilities) an entirely different problem was presented by the intervening portion of the route. After assembling all data it was decided that Midway Island could be used satisfactorily as a seaplane base. It had adequate and fairly well protected water for landings and take offs and space for the erection of necessary structures. Wake Island, lying 1,185 miles west of Midway and 1,508 miles east of Guam provided a link in what otherwise would have been a longer sector than the one from California to Hawaii. The
few charts available showed Wake to be a coral atoll composed of three “islands” whose points almost met providing circular protection around a lagoon which they enclosed. Guam was the third island recognized as a necessary base for the projected route.
The SS North Haven, a 15,000 ton steamer was chartered early in 1935 from San Francisco. A cargo and complement of passengers unique in the annals of shipping was taken aboard. Supplies for Manila were loaded first, then for Guam, Wake, Midway and Honolulu so that on arrival at each port the supplies for that base would be on top and readily accessible. The cargo included two complete villages, five air bases, one quarter million gallons of fuel, forty-four airline technicians, a construction force of seventy-four and food to subsist them for months. Among the countless other items of equipment and material were motor launches, barges for unloading equipment, refrigerators, diesel electric generators, windmills, water storage and gasoline tanks.
Present day equipment and devices for the landing of personnel and cargo on beaches exposed to the open sea and surrounded by coral reefs had not yet been conceived. At Midway the ship had to be unloaded several miles from shore with high seas running. Cargo was lightered through heavy surf continuously breaking on the reefs surrounding the island. At Wake Island the problems were even more difficult and more numerous. Cargo had to be lightered from ship to shore then transferred across Wilkes Island over an improvised railway to the lagoon. At the lagoon it had to be loaded again aboard lighters and towed across to Peale Island, then to the building site. The soil of Wake was unproductive and in order to start garden facilities for the
Nov.-Dee., 1950
supply of working staffs and future passengers tons of dark rich soil was brought from Guam and there were created soil-less gardens—nicknamed the bathtub gardens of Wake.
To accomplish what except for meticulous planning would have been an impossible schedule, strenuous work and able direction were required. Upon reaching an island the entire expedition, ships crew, construction crew and airport crew worked on the general unloading assignment. Once the transfer of cargo had been completed all hands devoted themselves to immediate necessary preliminary construction such as the erection of a direction finder and radio installations. After fifteen days a designated group for permanent construction work and the airport crew took over. The rest boarded the boat and moved on. Within fifty-five working days the task was completed.
The desired terminal in the Orient was Shanghai, the commercial metropolis of China and the gateway to important points in the interior. Direct access to the city was impossible however as political conditions would have forced the Chinese to allow airlines of a number of nations, including Japan, to establish terminals in China if Pan American was given permission. Hong Kong, the British Colony, was the alternative terminus selected and arrangements were made for a Chinese company to provide service from Hong Kong to Shanghai. At that time two Chinese aviation companies had franchises in China. Pan American acquired stock in one of them, the Chinese National Aviation Corporation (CNAC). Under PAA direction the airline was reorganized and put on a paying basis. CNAC supplied valuable weather data needed to complete the Pacific picture and after a number of survey flights transpacific service was inaugurated on November 22, 1935.
To a large extent planning for a south Pacific service to cover the 7,000 mile route from California through Hawaii to Australasia paralleled activities leading up to the creation of service to the Orient. As early as 1932 Pan American began studying trade and transportation conditions in Australasia. An expedition was sent out in 1935 to follow up preliminary studies and a route was finally selected via Canton and Noumea, New Caledonia, to Auckland, New Zealand. Service to Sydney, Australia was added to this route after the original service to New Zealand was inaugurated. This last segment affording Mr. and Mrs. Down-Under complete United States-flag transport facilities to the United States had to await the signing of an agreement between the United States and Australia covering air transportation between the two countries.
In many respects the creation of a Clipper base at Canton Island represented an even greater task than that encountered at either Midway or Wake, but the experience gained in the previous building work proved of enormous value. Canton Island, situated amid the vast wastes of the South Pacific, is actually a sandspit projecting from the ocean floor. Roughly diamond shaped and varying in width from fifty yards to a third of a mile, Canton’s surface almost completely encloses a surface smooth lagoon. The lagoon is nine miles long and three miles wide and has a very narrow out-