Pan Amerfcan
Nov.-Dee., 1950	Would A in ways Teacher	9
let to the sea. Canton was considered of little value to the rest of the world until its potentialities as a base for a South Pacific air route were recognized.
In May 1939 the SS North Haven, serving again in her pioneering capacity as a building supply ship for a new air route, dropped anchor off the barrier reef of Canton Island and put ashore six thousand tons of building material and a construction crew, among whom were many veterans of the Midway and Wake projects. Lack of knowledge of current and tidal conditions proved an enormous handicap. The best available knowledge regarding the area was to the effect that the average rainfall was less than two inches a year. A total of more than fifteen inches of rain fell in the first two months of the labor of building the Clipper base. A coral head problem in the lagoon even more difficult than that encountered at Wake was solved only by tricky blasting. But despite all of these handicaps, the conversion of Canton to the purposes of modern international air transportation was completed in record time. An airport and a modern community dedicated to the needs of airline operation similar to those constructed at Midway were established less than a year after the first visit of the SS North Haven.
Today United States departure points for Pacific and Asiatic airports are San Francisco, Los Angeles, Seattle and Portland. No local traffic is carried between these domestic points however. Base facilities for handling Clipper flights to Alaska, the Pacific Northwest and the Orient are located at the new six-hundred-and-twenty acre Seattle-Tacoma Airport. Base facilities for Clipper flights to Australasia, the Pacific Southwest and the Orient are located at San Francisco’s International Airport. Both airports are outstanding examples of modern terminal architecture providing many conveniences for air travelers. At both airports Pan American facilities include huge modern hangars constructed by the airline which are large enough to enable personnel to work on new double-decked Boeing Stratoliners. The buildings can be readily expandable as new equipment is placed into service.
Airport construction activities are also being undertaken at other scheduled Pacific stops. At Manila the International Airport is being repaired, improved and enlarged. Close to the center of Manila and accessible by all kinds of land transportation, the terminal is being developed as a showcase for Philippine merchandise for visitors from all over the world to see. An airport enlargement and improvement project is also underway at Hawaii. At United States island possessions land airports used by the Military now serve as ports of call for Clipper flights. On foreign soil, such airports as Nandi Field in Suva, Whenaupai Field in New Zealand, Tontouta Field in New Caledonia and Kingsford Smith Airport in Australia have all been built by the countries themselves and afford adequate facilities for Clipper passengers and cargo.
At the outbreak of war the Pacific Division lost all sectors of its transpacific routes except the one between California and Hawaii. Flights on this sector were in-
creased to almost a daily basis however. In addition, after Pearl Harbor, Pan American furnished a great deal of valuable information regarding the Pacific area to governmental departments and agencies. The data included complete files of weather maps and flight logs covering Pan American’s entire experience in the Pacific, complete route manuals, information on marine and air facilities, geographical conditions, population densities and characteristics of Pacific isles, navigation charts of Pacific air routes, records of ocean swells at Wake, manuals for the construction and operation of seaplane bases, specifications and layouts for marine railways and beach gear and manuals covering serving of meals aloft.
The Atlantic
In contrast to the Pacific, none of the stepping stones in the Atlantic Ocean, which in the early Nineteen-Thirties were required for transocean service, were owned by the United States. Although ships had been plying the Atlantic for centuries amassing a great deal of data on surface characteristics there was little information available on high altitude conditions. As early as 1928 a program was formulated to investigate all possible air routes across the Atlantic and preliminary negotiations were started to obtain necessary landing rights. One of the most important routes to be considered from the very beginning was the mid-Atlantic route via Bermuda and the Azores. Pan American was also fully aware of the advantages afforded by the Great Circle route through Newfoundland and Ireland to Great Britain. Technical studies were made of weather conditions over both routes and of the most desirable sites for bases. At the same time thought was given to a still more northerly route via
Greenland and Iceland as it involved shorter overwater flights than other Atlantic crossings. As early as 1930 Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh was named chairman of a Technical Committee to investigate such matters. During the years that followed, Pan American, either alone or in collaboration with others, sent a number of expeditions and scientific observers into the field for the purpose of accumulating data for future transatlantic operations. Besides participating in these expeditions, Pan American financed the preparation of various reports bearing on wind, fog, light and weather conditions and flight times relating to the northern route. Extensive correspondence was conducted with scientists, aviators and explorers in Canada, the United States, Europe and Russia. By 1935 the preliminary period of investigation and survey work had been accomplished and active preparation for initiation of transatlantic air services began with the necessary permit negotiations with countries involved.
While these negotiations for operating rights and scientific projects were in progress, Pan American set out to provide itself with the flight equipment necessary for the survey and future operations. As in the Pacific, although landplanes were believed to be the final answer, the availability only of seaplanes capable of doing the job caused the airline to begin service over the Atlantic with flying boats. Looking towards the development of land aircraft however Pan American studied locations for landplane fields in Newfoundland, Labrador, Greenland and Iceland and was instrumental in bringing about improvements of leading fields in Eire and Portugal. If the war had not occurred Pan American would have replaced seaplane aircraft with landplanes
NEW CALEDONIA—This airport is located at Noumea in the French colony New Caledonia. It is a station on the route of the Flying Clippers to New Zealand and Australia.