Nov.-Dec., 1950
Pan American
World A/rmvs Teacher
7
example, landplane airports required major expansions in Havana and Nassau; a big new field was constructed at Camaguey, Cuba; another at Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic; and a new terminal was constructed at San Jose, Costa Rica. Considerable investments were made to improve facilities at Hermosillo and Mazatlan in Mexico; at Tegucigalpa in Honduras; Maracaibo, Venezuela; and Managua, Nicaragua. In certain Latin American countries local laws required ground aeronautical facilities to be owned and operated by a corporation of local nationality. In addition, local companies could make substantial contributions to success by rendering agency services, handling matters with local governments and by acting as feeder lines. Accordingly friendly local connections were made with airlines in some countries. In Mexico for example, Pan American’s affiliate, Cia Mexicana de Aviacion, is the country’s largest and most important line today. In Brazil, Pan American’s affiliate, Panair do Brasil, holds a similar position. Among other affiliated companies are Aerovias. Nacionales de Colombia, Lloyd Aereo Boli-vano and Cia Cubana de Aviacion.
To keep pace with the rapid development of air transportation some countries in South America and the Caribbean today are undertaking airport construction of their own. The Argentine Government for example, recently opened the new Pistarini Airport at Buenos Aires. The new terminal is one part of an 18,000 acre community being built about fifteen miles southwest of Buenos Aires. Another new international air terminal program is the one being undertaken at San Juan, Puerto Rico. When completed the five million dollar project at Isla Verde, east of San Juan on the Atlantic, will make San Juan the air hub of the entire eastern Caribbean.
Even in Miami, the present headquarters of the Latin American Division, great changes accompanied the change-over from sea to land aircraft. The original Miami-Havana schedule in 1927 was carried on with a small tri-motored landplane, the first landplane to operate an over water route. During that early period Pan American airport engineers chased rattlesnakes out of the brush at the edge of the Florida Everglades and built a beautiful airport. One of America’s first real air passenger stations was designed and erected at the field. During the period when flying boats were used Pan American constructed the Dinner Key international marine base air terminal at Miami. This facility was constructed entirely at the airline’s expense. The passenger station alone cost nearly $300,000 excluding the cost of land roadways and other incidentals. For many years it was the outstanding air passenger terminal in the United States embodying all of Pan American’s experience in the development of facilities suitable for the handling of international air traffic. For a short time after the change over to land planes, operations were carried on at the original Pan American Field where a major expansion took place. The airport was more than doubled in size, new runways built and two extensive wings added to the terminal building. Hangar space was enlarged, a large sound proof
motor test building erected and shop and office space increased. This had hardly been accomplished when the steadily increasing traffic caused growing pains to become evident. Soon Pan American transferred its operations to Miami’s great International Airport where the fleet of Clippers linking the Americas are serviced today. The majority of Latin American flights originate in Miami. Many schedules however fly directly from New York while others originate at Houston, Texas and New Orleans, Louisiana. Mexico and Central America are also served by Pan American from Los Angeles.
The Pacific
The establishment of regular and dependable transport service across the Caribbean in 1930 was actually the foundation upon which Pan American initiated both transpacific and trans-Atlantic operations. The first long distance overwater route flown anywhere in the world was the six hundred mile journey across the Caribbean from Kingston, Jamaica to Barranquilla, Colombia and for five years Pan American utilized this trip as a laboratory of preparation for transocean flights. A technical staff developed ocean direction finding navigation ■apparatus and flight captains and crews qualified for over ocean service.
In 1931 engineering research was directed towards an exhaustive study of aircraft design and materials enabling Pan American engineers to develop specifications for the first transocean type of aircraft. Although the airline had long been interested in the use of land aircraft for over ocean flights, believing that ultimately they would offer the greatest speed, range, carrying capacity and economy of operation, none had been developed at that time capable of the long non-stop segments of transocean routes. Therefore four engined seventeen ton clipper
flying boats, the largest commercial aircraft yet constructed in the United States, were chosen to form the first units of a giant fleet which ultimately became America’s first merchant marine of the air. Once adequate land aircraft were available capable of spanning the vast reaches of the Atlantic and Pacific they were substituted for seaplane equipment. In 1946 landplanes replaced the last seaplanes marking the end of the era of the flying boat. The new equipment cut flying time over various routes to more than half that of previous schedules.
During the period of its preparation for transoceanic flights Pan American studied routes over both the Pacific and the Atlantic. It believed that eventually both routes would be established but decided to leave it to events as to which would be developed first. During the early Nineteen-Thirties European nations were particularly active in the Asiatic Area. The British were establishing Empire routes and the Dutch were setting up Java service. Therefore Pan American decided to tackle the Pacific first and capture aerial leadership for a United States-flag carrier. Developmental activities were still continued with regard to the Atlantic however.
While the problem of flight equipment was being worked out, Pan American moved ahead with other phases of its transoceanic program. Two routes to the Orient were studied—one by way of Alaska and the second by way of the American island possessions of Hawaii, Midway, Wake, Guam, the Philippines and Japan. Political obstacles to the development of the Alaskan route led to the decision that the Hawaiian route should be the first to be developed.
In 1932 however, prior to final determination of this issue, Pan American acquired certain airlines in Alaska and proceeded to

GUATEMALA—La Aurora Airport at Guatemala City boasts an administration building that is one of the most beautiful in Latin America, or anywhere in the world, for that matter.