Pan Amer rcA/v
World Airways Teacher	Nov.-Dee., 1950

Pah Americas
<W UAi
Wo ft cd Airways Trachrr
m
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1950, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
ARE YOU WITH US?
With this issue of World Airways Teacher readers who are on the regular mailing list wiil receive a second notice about “renewing subscriptions.”
Although there is no charge for the paper, we do like to canvass the list from, time to time to' make certain it is going only to those who are still interested.
If you responded to the first notice enclosed with the October issue, ignore this one. Or if you are a new reader and requested listing subsequent to November 1, it will not be necessary to reply. Otherwise, if you wish to keep your name on the World Airways Teacher list, please return the card after noting on it your correct, current address.
In this case, the second notice is the last, and we intend to^ drop names of those who do not reply. Thanks.
PAA LOAD EVENT . I I / Anymodelers \y	yrr-n	^	present?
---We now are mak-
=•	ing plans for PAA
Load Event for 1951, and would like to hear from modelers who want to compete.
PAA Load Event was introduced at “The	Nationals” of model airplane com-
petition in 1948, and sponsored again by PAA at regional meets and the Nationals in 1949 and 1950. It is a special event in which the competing models are required to pay load, thus providing a basis for comparison with full scale airplanes, which carry payload as their basic reason for operating.
In the 1951 contests the new x/2 A engine classification will be featured. Classes A and B will be combined, competing against each other with proportionately greater payload required for Class B.
We’re not going to explain y2A, A and B here, because if you are a modeler you’ll know what we mean, and if you’re not a modeler you won’t care.
But if you are a modeler, or know one, it will be of interest that the 1951 rules and regulations for PAA Load Event will be ready about January 1 and that a copy of the book will be mailed if requested.
A post card will do. Send it to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North and ask for the 1951 booklet on PAA Load Event.
International Friendship League
From time to time we have written of the International Friendship League which arranges letter exchanges for teenagers who want pen pals in other countries.
This fall the I.F.L. has something new— a handsome certificate issued to members which gives evidence of membership in the league and has spaces for entering the names of those with whom the member corresponds.
Printed in color, and with a map showing the international air mail routes, the certificate is in a size suitable for framing to hang on the wall of one’s room at home, or the class room in school.
It is so new that we couldn’t even get a copy to reproduce here, hut it will be ready for distribution by the time this issue of World Airways Teacher gets into the mail —or shortly thereafter.
To inquire about the International Friendship League and its service to pen pals write direct to the League at 40 Mount Vernon Street, Boston 8, Mass.
Summer School in Lima
The summer school of San Marcos University in Lima makes a special, and successful, effort to provide courses of study that will be of interest to students from the U. S.
Last summer Pan American Airways and the affiliated company Pan American-Grace Airways worked with San Marcos on transportation arrangements and promotion, and we have been advised now that the student body last summer included representatives of twenty states of the U. S., plus students from Canada, Guatemala and Panama.
This summer course is offered every year, and although announcement for 1951 has not been received at this time it is not too early to write to the University in Lima to
GEOGRAPHICAL QUIZ
Among the 83 countries and colonies served by Pan American World Airways are the following:
Canton Island
Cape Verde Islands
Cyprus Island
Gold Coast
Kuwait
Lebanon
New Caledonia
Senegal
Wake Island
Windward Islands
Can you identify these political entities, and give their geographical locations ?
Answers on page 11.
request the bulletin for 1951.
A number of students from the U. S. are now enrolled for the spring course-—-which is the current season, of course, since it’s spring in Lima when it’s autumn-north of the equator.
Round-the-world Radio
The first globe-circling system of air-ground voice radio communication for airline operation was completed in November when a new voice system replaced radio telegraph on the Flying Clippers run between Basra, Iraq and Karachi, Pakistan.
Approval by the U. S. Civil Aeronautics Administration of voice communications between in-flight Clippers and radio ground stations on the Basra-Karachi-New Delhi portion of its far eastern route completes Pan American’s round-the-world radiotelephone system. Thirty-two high-frequency radio ground stations, located across 16 continents and islands, link the airline’s 19,687-mile voice radio chain around the earth.
The event marks the accomplishment of a radio-telephone development program undertaken by Pan American in 1945 in cooperation with several countries, other airlines operating over the various international routes involved, anl manufacturers of communications equipment.
Aeronautical Radio, Inc., a non-profit communications organization composed of U. S. airlines including Pan American World Airways as a major participant, implemented construction of the Pacific network stations for the joint use of airlines operating between the U. S. mainland and the Orient.
The $2,000,000 project involved construction of ground radio stations at Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Anchorage, Honolulu, Okinawa, and Tokyo.
The radio-telephone system whereby airline pilots communicate directly with ground stations using microphone and headset has been standard with all U. S. domestic airlines since their inception. The radio-telegraph dot-dash system, on the other hand, involves a wireless operator sending and receiving messages in Morse code.
Although direct, spoken communication is more rapid and positive than wireless telegraphy, international air transport, until comparatively recently, has been conducted by radio telegraph. This was mainly because of certain early technical and language problems.
These technical problems were largely eliminated with the development of long-range equipment capable of efficient voice transmission and reception under such vari-(Continued on page 12)