I?*3 ñ’p*t*'T

Pan Amerf can
World Amways Teacher
Nov.-Dee., 1950
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. VII No. 2
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (IDLEWILD)—New York City’s new International Airport is an operations base for the Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways and the airliners of other overseas air carriers. The area of Idlewild is equal to all of the lower part of the island of Manhattan—up to 42nd Street—as shown by another illustration accompanying this article.
AIR TRAVEL, 1951
AIRPORTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD
By Lou A. Phillips
Airports are actually windows of the world. Through them Clipper travelers catch their first and last glimpses of countries, visited. Airport experiences can serve to create those first and last impressions which so often color entire visits. In the case of in-transit passengers airports provide the only direct contact with the country en route.
It may come as a surprise to learn that Pan American World Airways, who pioneered the establishment of air transport service for the United States over those international trade routes considered of first importance to our commerce, our postal service and the national defense, is also in the airport business. Its entrance into the field was mandatory. An airline is not merely the air line distance between two points on the earth’s surface but is essentially a ground Organization composed of airports, intermediate landing fields and weather and radio reporting stations which support it aloft.
In the United States the Federal Government developed airways equipped with fre-
quent intermediate landing fields and aids to aerial navigation and countless cities aided with Federal grants constructed municipal airports. This situation does not always exist abroad. In many instances if Pan American wished to operate in a particular area and establish and maintain safe, efficient standards, it had to provide its own ground facilities. For this reason during the past twenty-three years Pan American has been building a world-wide transport system complete with land and marine bases, radio stations, meteorological observatories, hangars, terminals and other necessities.
Today, Pan American World Airways operates almost 60,000 route miles into or through more than 350 airports serving 72 countries and colonies throughout the world. The airport figure includes only the stops on scheduled flights and does not include many alternate airports which, while used infrequently are staffed and equipped for emergency landings. Airports at which Pan American’s blue and white ensignia is seen are to be found in the sub-arctic, the tropics, (Continued on page 6)
Teachers and students will do more traveling in 1951 than ever before, according to present indications.
Each year at about this time we make such a prediction as that in the preceding paragraph, and it is a safe one to set down, because educational travel keeps on growing year by year, and without doubt will continue to do so.
Some announcements of study and travel projects for next year already have come in, and are summarized hereafter. Other projects are still in the planning stage, and will be reported in future issues of World Airways Teacher.
Meanwhile, a guidance and clearing house agency which should help to solve many problems of tour operators and travelers alike is now a going concern, in the entity of the National Council for Educational Travel. The Council was conceived in a preliminary meeting at the University of Indiana in 1949 and its organization was set up in a meeting at Atlantic City at the time of the American Association of School Administrators early this year.
The Council met again this fall at (Continued on page 12)