Pan Amerìcay
Worid Airways Teacher	Nov.-Dee., 1950
of the value of gold. No native state of any size had yet been established, but numerous petty chiefdoms were in existence among the Coast people and, inland the strong kingdom of Adansi was beginning to develop.
At first the Portuguese were interested in obtaining gold, ivory and spices, but with the opening up of the New World there came a demand for cheap labour for the plantations. So commenced the transatlantic slave trade which, until its decline and abolition in the nineteenth century (through the instrumentality of the British Government), shaped the history of the Gold Coast.
The main results of the slave trade were twofold. First, in order to feed the slaves awaiting shipment, and their captors, the Portuguese were obliged to introduce food plants, and to teach an improved method of agriculture to a people hitherto largely dependent for food on the uncultivated resources of the forest and sea. Secondly, the lucrative nature of the trade attracted the attention of other European nations besides the Portuguese to the possibilities of the Gold Coast.
The Dutch, appearing on the Coast in 1595, rapidly undermined the domination of the Portuguese, who were compelled to abandon all their possessions to the newcomers in 1642. Other European powers, including the English, followed. By 1750 however, the year in which the African Company of Merchants was formed, and subsidized by the Imperial Government to the extent of £13,000 per annum, all had withdrawn except the Dutch, the Danes and the English, with headquarters at Elmina, Christiansborg and Cape Coast respectively.
In 1821 the Imperial Government first assumed full control of the British settlements in the Gold Coast, but it was not until 1886, after many changes of policy, that they were finally constituted a Crown Colony. Even then the Colony did not in-
The Gold Coast Colony
The first Europeans to establish a permanent connection with the Gold Coast were the Portuguese, who visited the country in 1471, and built the castle at Elmina eleven years later to protect their trade.
In building the castle they set an example to all Europeans who followed them; and there are to-day, at intervals of a few miles right along the coast, picturesque remains
CONFERENCE—Members of the U. N. visiting mission hold an informal meeting with the Akpini native authority in Togoland.
TOGOLAND—A United Nations visiting mission went to Togoland in December, 1949. Holding the U. N. flag is Benjamin Gerig of the U. S. A. Also in the picture are Dr. Victor Hoo, China, Assistant Secretary General of the U. N., and H. Wieschoff of the U. S. A.
times of the year, the high relative humidity is trying; but that health can be maintained is proved by the large and steadily growing number of Europeans who have led active lives on the Coast for twenty years and more.
It would be quite wrong to regard the Gold Coast as the “White Man’s Grave” it used to be. So successful have Government large-scale health measures proved, that the annual European mortality figures have been reduced to a seventh of what they were at the beginning of the present century.
History
The traditions of the present-day inhabitants have the general tendency to record an invasion in waves from the north-west to the south-east, v/ith a secondary movement on a very much smaller scale from the east along the coast. These traditions are not of great antiquity; there is, however, considerable evidence to support their truth and to show that the invaders overwhelmed, and more or less replaced, a race of “little people”, who used stone implements, made elaborately decorated pottery and lived on elevated sites in the forest country.
It would appear that the first immigrants arrived about A.D. 1200, and that the last did not establish themselves until the seventeenth century. Even then there were many conflicts, and the present territorial situation was not reached until about 1740.
of numerous castles and forts, all of which were built to protect trade and as centres for it. The castles at Elmina, Cape Coast and Christiansborg are among the more interesting of those which are still in daily use as quarters or as Government offices. Christiansborg Castle is the residence of the Governor of the Gold Coast.
The Portuguese found on the Coast a people of hunters and fishermen, primitive in habits and development, yet understanding the working of iron and fully conscious