Pan Amerícan
Nov.-Dec., 1950	World Airways Teacher
THE GOLD COAST
The Gold Coast is roughly of the same area as Great Britain, and it is about 400 miles long and 200 broad.
The southern part of the territory is the Gold Coast Colony proper; to the north there is the Colony of Ashanti, and, farther north still the Northern Territories Protectorate. On the east lies the long strip of Togoland under British Trusteeship.
Immediately behind the low, sandy coast line, from Axim in the west to beyond the Volta River in the east, there lies a strip of land known as the coastal zone, varying in depth up to as much as 60 miles from the sea. It consists generally of low, rolling plains from which rise abruptly a few small ranges of hills and isolated peaks. The coastal zone is unusually dry for the latitude in which it is situated; the soil is not poor, but the rainfall is scanty and vegetation consists of grass with scrub and an occasional tall tree.
The bulk of the Colony’s export and import trade is seaborne, and along the coast there is a series of towns of considerable size. Some of them are old trading ports no longer of commercial importance; others, like Takoradi and Accra, are among the chief commercial centers of the country. Accra, with a population estimated at 135,000, is the seat of government, and the air line stop on Pan American’s Flying Clipper route which goes on to South Africa. At Takoradi there is a fine modern harbour, which was opened in 1928 by the then Secretary of State for the Colonies. A contract for the extension of Takoradi Harbour at a cost of not less than 2^t million has been signed, and the work has begun. There are numerous fishing villages along the whole seaboard.
Behind the coastal zone, in the northern part of the Colony proper and in Ashanti, lies the area of the closed forest—a humid region with a high annual rainfall. The closed forest lies in a country of hills and mountains. Its northern boundary is formed by a range which in many places reaches a height of more than 2,000 feet. Throughout the area the hills are numerous and steep, with here and there perpendicular walls of rock or overhanging cliffs.
The forest region is watered by many streams which form the tributaries of the Rivers Tano, Ankobra, Pra and Birim.
The area under closed forest is, roughly, 18,000 to 20,000 square miles, and it is almost entirely from this part of the country that the present prosperity of the Gold Coast is drawn.
To the north, beyond the closed forest, lies the Savannah and grassland country which is drained by the Volta River system. Except in the rainy season (August to October inclusive) the area is not well watered, most of the rivers and tributaries | running almost dry, leaving only occasional pools of comparatively deep water. The general character of the Northern Territories is that of gently undulating plains. Hills are few, the most notable being the scarp which runs from Kintampo to Gambaga, and rises about 800 feet above the surrounding country. Ranges of hills north of the White Volta form the frontier
OFFICIALS—In the center is Mr. Justice J. H. Coussey, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Reform. On the left is Nana Sir Tsiln Darku, O.B.E., and on the right Nana Gychi Ababis, K.M.C., two leading paramount chiefs who both serve on the Governor’s Executive Council.
of the Protectorate with the French Colony of the Upper Volta and, to the east, the frontier with French Togoland is marked by mountain ranges which form the watershed of the Rivers Volta and Mono.
Climate
In common with the rest of West Africa, the Gold Coast has definitely marked seasons, which are characterized by differences of rainfall and of temperature. The factor which controls seasonal changes is the same as that which gives rise to northeast and south-west monsoons in India— the lowering of temperature in land areas to the north in winter, and its rise in summer, while the temperature of the adjacent seas remains almost unchanged throughout the year.
From March to July the great heat of the Sqhara to the north causes an influx from the southern sea of moisture-laden winds and a major rainy season is the result. August is a month of drought, and the rainfall then continues intermittently during the minor season of September to November (called locally the small rains).
From December to January the lowering of temperature in Northern Africa causes a reversal in the prevailing wind-direction and a cold dry, dust-laden wind, the har-mattan, sets in from the north.
Certain modifications of the general West African seasonal system are brought about by the local mountain range which lies in the forest zone and athwart the paths of the seasonal winds, and causes a marked difference in the distribution of rainfall and temperature between the parts of the country which lie to the north and south of it respectively. Maximum rainfall and consequent minimum temperatures occur between Axim and Half Assini on the coast in the west, and from this part of the country a series of concentric zones of
gradually diminishing rainfall and rising temperature succeed one another, lying parallel to the mountain range. To the north of the mountain range, the harmattan is more severe than it is in the south, and the rain from the southern winds is less. In these areas there is a single rainy season from April or May to October.
The annual rainfall averages as follows: the coastal zone 33 inches; in the forest zone, 60.6 inches; and in the northern zone, 43.5 inches.
Population
The population, as estimated in 1948, is 4,094,609. It is a small figure for a country of the size of the Gold Coast, but, like much of inter-tropical Africa, the territory suffered severely in the past from the slave trade, domestic conflicts and disease. Now that peace and European conceptions of sanitation have come to the land, the population is growing, and there are great natural resources at its disposal.
There are between 4,000 and 5,000 Europeans in the Gold Coast. None of them are permanent residents and, wives apart, the great majority are employees of the Government, the missions, and the various commercial and mining organizations. They are granted leave in the United Kingdom, or in some other non-tropical country, after serving on the Coast for a period which varies from a year or less to about eighteen months, the longer period being the more usual.
The Gold Coast is not in itself unhealthy, and it is cooler than many tropical countries. But mosquito-borne diseases are prevalent, and to maintain health the European must make a habit of certain simple precautions, such as the use of mosquito nets and boots, and the boiling and filtering of water (where pipe-borne water supplies do not exist). In certain localities, and at certain