12
AIR TRAVEL, 1951
{Continued from page 1)
Western Illinois State Teachers College, Macomb, 111. and will have another meeting at the time of the Atlantic City convention of the AASA.
The Macomb meeting was attended by educators ranging from grade school teachers to college presidents, by representatives of educational tour operators, and by representatives of transportation companies, including air lines, rails and buses.
Progress was made on areas including: 1. Credit for travel in the form of credit toward degrees, toward professional advancement in a school system, and toward certification as a teacher—the chief problem here being to spread the practice of giving such credits for travel. 2. Financing of travel—cost being the main obstacle for many educators—and the Council will encourage the establishment of low tourist-type rates and in other ways help to solve financial problems. 3. Research on problems of educational travel will be undertaken as ways and means for setting up projects can be found. 4. A clearing house for information, which exists now on an informal basis, will be set up in a more extensive manner.
Membership on the council is available to representatives from institutions and agencies engaged in or contributing to educational travel, including governmental, commercial and social agencies as well as schools and colleges. An application blank may be had by writing the Council’s Executive Secretary, Paul H. Kinsel, who is Director, Division of Travel Service, National Education Association, 1201 16th Street, Washington, D. C.
Travel Opportunities
Among announcements thus far received regarding educational travel in 1951, one of the first received comes from Melvin G. Nydegger at Mississippi Southern College, which has been offering travel tours for a number of years through its Institute of Latin American Studies.
Mississippi Southern College. The Institute of Latin American Studies will offer its annual summer school in Colombia July to August, 1951, in cooperation with the National University of Bogota. All courses are fully accredited by Mississippi Southern College towards Bachelor’s degree, and by special arrangement students may do work for graduate credit.
Cost will be between $500 and $600 for transportation via PAA, tuition for the six weeks period July 1 to August 15, and living expenses. Courses offered will be in elementary Spanish, Spanish composition and conversation, history of Colombia and history of Colombian Literature. Trips to other places in Colombia will be available on an optional basis.
Write to: Mr. Melvin G. Nydegger, Director, Institute of Latin American Studies, Mississippi Southern College, Station A, Hattiesburg, Miss.
Scholastic Teacher Tours. Scholastic Teacher plans four “short course” tours, as follows: (1) Northern Tour: Britain, Netherlands, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway (with short course overviews at
Pan Amer r can
Won to A/amrs Teacher
university centers of London, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Oslo).	2. Middle Europe:
Britain, Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, France (with short courses at London, Amsterdam, Marburg, Zurich). 3. South Europe: France, Italy, Austria, Switzerland (with short courses at Paris, Perugia, Inssbruck, Zurich). 4. Mediterranean and Turkey: Italy, Greece, Turkey (with short courses at Istanbul and Ankara).
Editor William Boutwell of Scholastic Teacher was in Europe last summer, and made preliminary arrangements. Tours will be led by editors and other staff officers of Scholastic Magazines, in groups of 20 to 25. Cost will be kept to $1,000 or less.
These tours will be scheduled if enough teachers express interest in them. Scholastic Teacher printed a reply coupon in its November 1 issue asking prospective tour members to express preferences and say what time they would like to travel. If that issue of the magazine is not available, sim-
Latin America offers one of the best opportunities for summer study in 1951, in the opinion of Dr. Donald Bishop of Syracuse University, who returned recently from an air trip to all the Latin American capitals during which he concluded preliminary arrangements for the 1951 Latin American program of the Institute of World Studies.
Dr. Bishop recommended to the Board of Directors of the Institute that a series of group tours be sent by air to South America, with each group putting major emphasis and devoting most of its time, to one country, but with familiarization trips and brief courses of study in others. For example, one group would undertake its main summer study course in Mexico City, but would travel also to the Central American countries. Another would concentrate on Peru, but would visit other places on the West Coast of South America. Other groups would focus on Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro and other centers. Such a plan not only would serve varying interests, but would provide a range of tours with price tags to suit all pocket books.
ables as distance, direction, time of day, and season—all of which affect radio operations.
Language problem was overcome by training and instruction in the basics of English language where required. Actually, the need for such training was not too widespread because of an almost universal understanding of English by most technical personnel.
The beginning of world-girdling radiotelephone operation was initiated during 1945 in Pan American’s Latin American Division when approval was received from the CAA to replace the slower radio-telegraph on its routes between Miami-Havana, Miami-Nassau. The successful use of radiotelephone on these routes demonstrated the possibilities of voice radio on longer international routes.
In May, 1949, Pan American became the first airline to introduce radio-telephone on all its European routes.
In March, 1950, the first transatlantic
Nov.-Dee., 1950
ply write to : Editor, Scholastic Teacher, 7 East 12th Street, New York 3, N. Y.
NEA Tours. The summer tour announcement of the Travel Division, National Education Association was not ready when this issue of World Airways Teacher went to press, but the popular air tours to' Latin America and to Honolulu will be repeated this year. For details write to: Travel Division, National Education Association, 1201 16th Street, Washington, D. C.
Institute of World Studies. A summer program for Latin America is being worked out by the Institute of World Studies in cooperation with the United States Travel Agency of Washington, D. C. Professor Donald Bishop of Syracuse has returned from a visit to Latin American countries in the interests of this program, and excerpts from his report are quoted elsewhere in this issue of World Airways Teacher. For details write to: Institute of World Studies, Homer Bldg., Washington D. C.
The Educational Policy Board, of which the chairman is Dr. Robert Ulich of Harvard University, agreed, and the Institute now is setting up the various tours. The number of groups to go, and the centers selected for their main study courses, will depend to a substantial extent upon inquiries received during the next few weeks. The courses will be open to students, teachers and other adults with sufficient educational background to benefit from summer university courses, and inquiries should be directed immediately to:
Institute of World Studies . Homer Building Washington, D. C.
The institute has had extensive experience with the organization of summer study tours, having sent groups to various parts of the world both before and since World War II. Travel arrangements for the groups will be made by the U. S. Travel Service of Washington, and air transportation will be via Pan American World Airways and Pan American-Grace Airways.
routes were tested and approved by the Civil Aeronautics Administration between the U. S. terminals and Lisbon via Santa Maria, Azores.
After exhaustive tests, all Pan American transatlantic routes were approved by the Civil Aeronautics Administration in June, 1950, for radio-telephone operations.
Working in the opposite direction, Pan American’s Pacific-Alaska Division had completed construction and secured CAA approval of trans-Pacific routes from U. S. Pacific terminals to the Calcutta co-terminal of the Atlantic and Pacific-Alaska Division routes.
Stations subsequently were constructed at New Delhi and Karachi, the last links open in the round-the-world route system. Approval of that portion of the route from Basra to New Delhi accomplishes the first round-the-world radio-telephone airway in history
LATIN AMERICAN SUMMER STUDY TOURS PLANNED BY INSTITUTE OF WORLD STUDIES
OVER THE WORLD {Continued from page 2)