Nov.-Dee., 1951
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
11
between temperate and tropical to be planted successfully. Bananas, oranges and pineapples are cultivated on a large scale and exported in considerable quantities. Apples, pears, plums, peaches and chestnuts produce good yields and certain Brazilian fruits such as guavas and papayas are now used for jams and jellies and juices and for canning. Grape wine is increasing in importance and the development of wines from typically Brazilian fruits is now the object of serious consideration. Cashew wine, for instance, is popular in the north where the trees grow wild and in great numbers.
Brazil is one of the richest countries in the world in mineral resources. In addition to coal, iron and copper it has what are probably the world’s largest manganese deposits, as well as deposits of mica, lead, zinc, mercury, chromium, nickel, bauxite, building stone, gold, platinum, diamonds and many other precious and semi-precious stones. Some of the world’s outstanding-iron reserves are to be found in Brazil. These huge deposits are of high grade and easily mined but are located in the interior and have been exploited only to a limited degree.
Since the beginning of this century Brazil’s manufacturing industry has undergone considerable development, including a five-fold rise in basic industrial output in the past decade. Special efforts have been made to diversify industry and the bulk of the home demand for most articles except engineering products is supplied by national factories. The largest Brazilian manufacturing activities are located in and around Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo.
Rio de Janeiro, the Federal Capital, is located on the southern shore of a landlocked harbor fifteen miles long and from two to ten miles wide. It is the principal port of the country and the center of international air routes in Brazil. Santos, the world’s leading coffee port, is 200 miles south of Rio de Janeiro and the natural gateway for the foreign commerce of the thriving state of Sao Paulo. The capital of this state, the city of Sao Paulo, is the second largest metropolis in Brazil and the third largest in Latin America. It is the fastest growing city in the world and due to its ever increasing manufacturing activities it has been called the “Chicago of South America.” Brazil’s major cities and three-fourths of its fifty-three million people live on a strip of land about two hundred miles wide along the country’s Atlantic Coast.
CHILE
The economy of Chile, as it relates to international trade, is closely associated with mining. It is the foreign sales of Chile’s mineral wealth that enable the country to buy abroad not only industrial equipment but also raw materials and foodstuffs not produced at home. As the world’s leading producer of natural nitrates, the second ranking copper producer, next to the United States, and the leading copper exporter, Chile has achieved considerable importance in world mineral trade. Formerly mining was based largely on the production of natural nitrates, but the increasing use of substitutes in the early thirties reduced nitrate exports to about half their former
peak. The intensified development of copper resources however has to a large degree compensated for these losses.
Chile possesses extensive deposits of high grade iron ore located close to its seaboard where it can be shipped to market by low cost water transportation. Nearly all of this ore has been exported to the United States in the past but the development of a domestic iron and steel industry is expected to increase domestic consumption of this mineral.
Chile, the chief coal producer of Latin America is almost self-sufficient in this commodity. Recent increases in the use of coal for heating have brought domestic consumption to a point where small amounts must be imported. Large potential petroleum resources have been discovered but as yet have not been exploited. Numerous other minerals mined in commercial quantities include silver, molybdenum, manganese, cobalt, lead, aluminum, mercury, mica, zinc, sulphur and bismuth.
Valparaiso is the principal port of Chile and the most important commercial center on the west coast of South America. Santiago, the nation’s capital, lies 116 miles from Valparaiso on a wide plain backed by the Andes Mountains. It is the fourth largest city in South America. One-fifth of all Chileans live in Santiago. The bulk of the five million Chileans live in the 800 mile long central portion of the country where the agricultural land, manufacturing industries, seat of government and most of the major cities are located.
Although agriculture does not produce as great a share of the domestic national income as does manufacturing, it employs a larger number of Chile’s working population than any other occupation. The principal crop is wheat. Large quantities of barley and oats are grown as well as smaller quantities of rye and corn. Rice is produced in sufficient quantities for domestic consumption with a considerable margin for export.
A great variety of vegetables are produced, including beans, potatoes, peas, chickpeas, lentils and onions. Large quantities of all except potatoes are exported. Cotton supplies one-third of the domestic need with supplementary supplies imported from Peru which also is the source of most of the sugar consumed in Chile. Fruit growing is of increasing importance to Chilean agriculture. The principal products are apples, peaches, pears, figs, plums, cherries, apricots, melons, various berries, oranges and
lemons. Grape culture is very important, with fruit being grown not only for table use but for the rapidly growing Chilean wine industry. Chile is Latin America’s second greatest wine producer. There are more than 35,000 individual vineyards, most of them less than seven acres in size.
The Chilean livestock industry is quite extensive, particularly since the development of additional grazing lands in the far south. Beef, veal, mutton, pork and goat-meat are processed. However, only about 7% of the total Chilean foreign trade is made up of pastoral products, the most important being wool, hides and skins and fresh and frozen meat. Wool production is enough not only to supply domestic needs but also to permit foreign sales of over 70% of total production.
In exchange for mineral products and certain food items, Chile imports heavy manufactured goods, industrial raw materials and foodstuffs. Chilean exports of copper and nitrate alone account for over 75% of the value of total foreign shipments. The leading non-mineral export item is beans, exports of which have doubled in the last few years. Closely following this commodity in value are exports of wool, rye and lentils. Industrial machinery, tools and parts for industry make up the largest group of Chilean imports, amounting to about one-sixth of the total. Foodstuffs are also imported in large quantities. Cotton and woolen cloth, yarn and bags are the most important textile products purchased abroad. Heading the list of mineral imports is crude petroleum.
A large part of Chile’s foreign trade is carried on with Western Hemisphere countries. Commerce between the United States and Chile consists principally of the exchange of a variety of United States manufactured products, especially machinery and vehicles, for Chilean copper, natural sodium, nitrate and iron ore. Prior to the recent war however, most of the copper was entered for refining and export and not for consumption in the United States. Chile is practically the sole source of United States imports of sodium nitrate and by far the leading supplier of imports of copper. The two commodities customarily represent more than three-fourths of total United States purchases from Chile. In addition to the United States, which is Chile’s main supplier and principal market, Argentina, Brazil and Peru do a large business with the nation. Leading European traders are Great Britain, France and Italy.
LAKE RUPANCO, CHILE — Mt. Osorno is in the background. Lake Rupanco is located in the southern part of Chile, the Chilean Lake Region, a fertile section rich in agriculture and known for its excellent trout and salmon fishing.