Nov.-Dee., 1951
Pan Amm /can
World	Alrmee Teacher
f
only object to be seen for miles in the sea-Jike plains. Some ombús are associated ith great historic events in the life of the country. The Ombú of Hope, for instance, is so called because San Martin and the other great men of his day, Juan Martín de Pueyrredón and Tomás Guido, seated on its enormous roots, made a solemn vow to continue the struggle for the independence of Argentina. The Ombú of Pedriel was a mute witness to one of the important battles with the British more than 150 years ago.
Argentina, Brazil and Chile have many attractions to offer in sports, music, resorts and modern conveniences. If you want to see a soccer game, many Argentine stadiums—one of the largest óf which at River Plata holds over 90,000 spectators —will give you this opportunity. For thrills, skiing has attracted many Americans to Chile. The Farallones skiing grounds are near Santiago. It takes about one hour to get there.
Argentines are among the best nourished people in the world. Buenos Aires has hundreds of celebrated restaurants. You may have your breakfast at a sidewalk café. You can eat your dinner to the tune of a tango, American jazz, a Strauss waltz or a rhumba. If you ask for a typical Argentine dish, some one will say at once the bife, the asado or barbecue. Argentines eat more meat than any other people in the world. Americans, long envied by others as great meat consumers must fold up their napkins and watch when an Argentine enters the dining room. Argentines consider Americans as something like vegetarians. Chile’s typical dish is, of course, cazuela, that delicious stew with chicken and corn, celery, carrots, string beans and rice cooked together. You may, of course, disregard all this and taste Chilean lobster from Robinson Crusoe’s isle, or the small tender oysters of unequaled delicacy. Every Chilean meal is a banquet and it is all yours for the asking.
Argentina, Brazil and Chile seem to be far in terms of mileage, but modern fast transportation—the Pan American way— gets you there with speeds never dreamed of a few years ago. The opportunity is here, the choice is yours!
■ • wmm i
: .... ,
'
ECONOMY AND FOREIGN TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Argentina, Brazil and Chile occupy about two-thirds of the area of the South American continent and have approximately two-thirds of the population. They account for more than 55% of United States trade with South America and more than one-third of our trade with all of the Latin American Republics. Within their boundaries lie the four largest cities on the continent, and the three nations are leaders in the trend toward industrialization which has become evident throughout the entire area.
Brazil, the largest country of Latin America and the fourth largest in the world, occupies nearly half of the entire South American continent. Its total area of 3,300,000 square miles exceeds that of the continental United States by about 277,600. Argentina, more than one-third the size of the United States, is the second largest country of Latin America. Its 1,112,743 square miles are set like a wedge between the Atlantic Ocean and its mountainous western border. The ribbonlike Republic of Chile occupies the entire southern section of South America between the crest of the Andes Mountains and the Pacific Ocean. Extending about 2600 miles from north to south with a width of from forty-six to two hundred-fifty miles, its 285,100 square miles make it slightly smaller than the areas of our three most western states, California, Oregon and Washington combined.
Each nation has its own unique geographical characteristics. The northwestern portion of Brazil, one-third of the country, is a tropical rain forest drained by the world’s largest river, the Amazon and its tributaries. In central Argentina are the pampas, a treeless plain whose rich soil is the basis of that country’s prosperity. In the northern part of Chile is the only true desert in South America.
Each country is linked with the United States by Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways, Pan American-Grace Airways operating the service down the west coast to Chile and across the Andes to
SANTIAGO—Calle Bernardo O’Higgins city of Santiago, in the central Valley of
is one of the main streets in the beautiful Chile.
Argentina. Commercial ties are strengthened through thousands of tons of Clipper Cargo, and personal goodwill is maintained by the transportation of thousands of business men and pleasure travelers between the countries. Today Rio de Janeiro is only 21 hours away from New York; Buenos Aires only 28 hours away; and Santiago only 21 hours distant via Miami.
ARGENTINA
For over thirty-five years Argentina has been the leading international trader of South America. At times, its foreign commerce has amounted to half the total world commerce of the continent. Agricultural and pastoral production form the cornerstone of the country’s economy and account for almost all exports, although the nation is one of the leading manufacturing countries of the region.
Since Argentina lies largely in the South Temperate Zone, its range of agricultural production differs from that of most Latin American nations in that it is diversified and less dependent upon the export of a single commodity or a very few commodities. Argentine agriculture more closely resembles that of the United States. The nation exports many of the same foods which the U. S. produces in large volume and therefore Argentine commodities usually find their principal markets in European countries, rather than in the U. S.
Until the middle of the last century Argentina was primarily a cattle raising country which kept up its commercial interchange with foreign countries on the basis of exports of meat and hides. At that time the country imported all of its manufactured articles and even the cereals and flour required to feed its people. However, the development of the nation’s fertile soil rapidly increased during the latter part of the Nineteenth Century and the beginning of the Twentieth. This growth of agriculture attracted labor and resulted in a great increase in European immigration which lasted until the First World War (1914-1917) when the initial requirements of agricultural development were satisfied.
Agricultural development transformed Argentina into one of the two most important surplus food producing areas of the world, ranking with Canada in this respect. Wheat is the leading crop with the country ordinarily accounting for about four-fifths of all Latin American wheat production. In fact Argentina is the only country of Latin America in which wheat growing is an important farm enterprise with the major part being exported. Argentina ranks as the largest flaxseed producing country in the world. About 90% of total production is exported, which customarily accounts for about one-half of the world’s total supply and four-fifths of world trade in flaxseed. The nation is the leading corn growing country of Latin America and the principal world exporter of corn, supplying about three-fourths of the total quantity entering world trade. Argentina is also one of the world’s leading exporters of barley, oats and rye.
Several other crops are important ele-