Pan American

World Airways Tfacher
Srixnv\*
sy
Nov.-Dec., 1951
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. VIII No. 3
EL PRESIDENTE-----The double decked “Strato” Clipper is the airplane which is used for the de luxe air service between New
York City and the east coast cities of South America. (See Unit on the ABC countries, beginning on page 3.)
TEACHER AND STUDENT TRAVEL NOTES
Any travel is bound to be educational, in the sense that the experience of going to new places gives one new knowledge and insight. Travel during a vacation just for the fun of it unmistakably has an educational aspect and value.
For best results along educational lines, however, a trip organized in such a way as to get the maximum of educational experience should be sought, and this is particularly important if one desires to get credit for the trip.
More and more such travel, whether by individuals, small or large groups, is taking to the air. So much more traveling can be accomplished by using air transportation.
* * *
The National Council on Educational Travel—now just two years old—was established to encourage planned educational travel, and to assist in finding the solutions to some of the problems that are encountered. The NCET will hold its next annual meeting in St. Louis at the time of the American Association of School Administrators convention February 23 to 27. The principal meeting for the NCET is set for February '25.
The NGET also will have regional meetings in Los Angeles and Boston, again coinciding with regional meetings of the AASA in those cities. AASA meets in Los Angeles March 8 to 12, and in Boston April 5 to 9.
Educators interested in travel are welcome at any of these meetings of the NCET, and will be given an opportunity to air their own views on the subject, should they desire to do so, during general discussion periods.
A topic which it is anticipated will come in for considerable discussion is credit for travel, whether academic credit granted by a university, professional advancement credit for salary increment by school systems, or credit for certification as a teacher by state educational departments. All three forms of credit, are granted by some schools, school systems and state departments, but the “oficianadas” of educational travel feel that many more could well do so and are taking steps to augment the practice.
A folder describing the council may be obtained by writing to the Executive Secretary, National Council on Educational
Atlantic Tourist Fare
Because of the natural interest of teachers in low cost air travel which has been made possible by tourist class services, and which is now projected for Atlantic service in 1952, the editor has summarized the history of tourist class service in this issue. See “Over the World” on page 2.
Travel, 1201 Sixteenth Street, Washington 6, D. C. Or World Airways Teacher will send a copy if requested.
* * *
While not the type of travel discussed above, the movements of Olympic athletes to Europe next year will afford a great many young men and women opportunity to engage in the sports at which they excel while getting acquainted with other athletes from all over the world.
Pan American World Airways will be the official air carrier for teams representing the United States in the 1952 Olympic Winter Games at Oslo, Norway, and in the 1952 Olympics at Helsinki. Arrangements made by the U. S. Olympic Committee and Pan American World Airways will result in the transportation of approximately 100 U. S. contestants to the Winter Games, and about 425 athletes to Helsinki. The Winter Games at Oslo take place February 14 through 25, and the XV Olympiad Games at Helsinki from July 19 to August 3.
* * *
Another movement to Helsinki last summer was that of the six man team which flies via PA A to Finland for the Wakefield Competition, classic event of model airplane flying. The team’s transportation was sponsored by Jim Walker, who manufactures kits and supplies for modelers, and who originated the U-Control method of flying models.