Pa/v American
Nov.-Dee., 1951

FOREWORD
By Henry Grattan Doyle *
ago, Chile ; across to Buenos Aires ; thence to Rio de Janeiro, and finally up the East Coast of South America, across the West Indies and on to New York City.
A Latin American friend once reminded me that in times of stress, as in World War II, or in the work of the United Nations, the United States and the other American republics have always drawn more closely together. In fact, the Organization of American States, formerly the Pan American Union, demonstrates how the United Nations could work except for the struggle between totalitarianism and democracy into which the Russians have forced us.
We have a pretty consistent record of friendship with our sister republics where Spanish, Portuguese, or French is spoken. We have made mistakes, and so have some of our neighbors, but the record as a whole is good.
But our neighbors are important for many reasons other than international relations. We draw heavily upon them for raw materials and they upon us for manufactured articles, from automobiles and heavy machinery to typewriters and fountain pens. Any foreign trader will tell you how economically interdependent all the American republics are.
For most of us, however, interest in Latin America is individual and personal. Thousands of students come here annually from
* Dr. Doyle is Dean of Columbian College
and Professor of Romance Languages in
The George Washington University in
Washington, D. C. Also, for many years,
Dr. Doyle was editor of “Hispania.”
PREPARATION
In planning our air trip to the “ABC” countries of South America—or in other words to Argentina, Brazil and Chile—we find that a number of choices are open to us.
We may elect any one of a number of gateway cities-—cities at the border of the U.S. from which we will depart and to which we will return: New York, Miami, New Orleans, Houston, Laredo, or Los Angeles. We may choose among a number of possible routes. We may decide to use tourist class service to save money, or to use the deluxe type of service in order to enjoy all the comforts and luxuries that may be had in air travel.
It is possible for us to complete the journey very quickly—19 hours from the United States to Buenos Aires, for example, and a similar quick journey back to the U.S. Or we may make shorter flights with stopovers.
At our stopovers we may stay in luxurious hotels with prices geared to luxury living, or we may stay in comfortable places at which the prices are for thinner purses.
Since the writer who is to serve as your guide in this imaginary trip can not consult you as to your wishes, he will include as many of the different phases of air travel to South America as possible in this short space, and attempt to describe just such a trip as you would make if it were your purpose to visit the countries to learn about them, and at the same time to learn as much about air transportation as possible.
our sister nations to the south and many more thousands come as tourists, while literally hundreds of thousands of our people visit them every year. Whether we like majestic mountains or colorful seashore resorts, quiet country life or the glitter of fine hotels and luxurious swimming pools, all are there. But the most important thing is to get to know the people themselves, to understand their culture, to understand how like us they are and at the same time how unlike us; to stop thinking of them as “queer” or even “quaint” and realize that despite language barriers and other obstacles, they and we are just human beings —“brothers and sisters under the skin.”
The best way to reach an understanding is by visiting them and encouraging them to visit us. Air travel, such as that provided by Pan American World Airways, has wrought miracles in making this possible. But to make such an experience really “pay off,” knowledge of each other’s languages is essential. Even a slight knowledge brings returns—a fact that Pan American World Airways recognizes by giving each North American traveler to the Spanishspeaking countries a little manual of “Useful Phrases” in the two languages. A sound knowledge of the language will make your trip ten times more interesting and fruitful, and make you not only welcome, but a visitor received with enthusiasm and even with affection.
FOR TRAVELING
The route selected is indicated on the map by a heavy black line. Other PAA and PANAGRA routes are indicated by narrow lines.
The heavy line represents a trip from New Orleans down the west coast to Santi-
Shall we make our arrangements directly with Pan American World Airways, or shall we avail ourselves of the services of a travel agent? Either method is all right, but in this case we’ll work with a travel agent, who not only will book our space on the Flying Clippers, but also make reservations for hotel rooms, for side trips for sightseeing, and help us plan all incidental details.
What clothing should we select? (Remember that the baggage limit, without payment for excess, is 30 kilograms, which is the equivalent of 66 pounds.)
The most important thing to remember is that the seasons are reversed below the Equator—if we leave the United States in the winter time, we will find it is summer when we arrive in Chile, Argentina and Brazil. For all three countries, the type of clothes you would wear in the United States, in season, are appropriate.
In Argentina, the men dress conservatively, and always wear coats. Sports clothes are acceptable except for formal occasions. If you go in the winter time, you’ll want warm clothing, and the ladies will want their fur coats.
Chile does not have extremes of climate —you’ll dress about the same as in southern California unless you are going far south, or to the mountains for skiing, in which case extra warm clothing will be wanted.
Brazil also has a mild climate, and spring and summer clothing will be wanted. For men slacks are essential, and a top coat for cool evenings. Beach wear definitely will be wanted.
While we are making these practical arrangements, we also should be learning as much as possible about the countries we are to visit, by reading books and magazine
BUENOS AIRES — Passengers disembarking from El Interamericano at the airport of Buenos Aires are greeted by a Gaucho and Gaucha in their native costumes.