Pan American
e	World Airways Teacher
articles—for example, the articles on the pages which follow.
Our Trip
Leaving New Orleans, we begin our journey on a tourist class schedule of Pan American World Airways. This DC-4 type Flying Clipper departs from the Moisant International Airport at 12:45 p.m. and is due at Tocumen Airport, serving Panama City in the Republic of Panama, and Balboa in the Canal Zone, at 9 :21 p.m. With allowance for one hour’s difference in time between Central Standard Time at New Orleans and 75th Meridian time in the Canal Zone, the elapsed time is about seven and a half hours for the 1603-mile flight.
This “tourist service” actually has all the conveniences and many of the luxuries associated with air travel. It is fast, the operating standards for its crew are exactly the same as for other services. The main difference lies in what the air line calls “high density seating,” meaning simply that the plane carries relatively a few more passengers than the deluxe plane, and this is the chief explanation for the lower price. In addition, a light meal is served instead of an elaborate one, and some of the superluxuries are missing.
Leaving the Canal Zone we have an opportunity to compare tourist and luxury service, for we shall travel on El Interamer-icano, famous luxury service of Pan American Grace Airways (PANAGRA). The DC-6 is a newer version of the plane in which we traveled from New Orleans. It is somewhat larger, and considerably faster —it flies from Miami via the Canal Zone and Chile to Buenos Aires in 19 hours.
It has roomy cabins with lounge chairs. Sleeperettes, which are specially designed reclining chairs with footrests which allow the sleeper to recline in true sleeping position, are available, and for an extra charge a berth may be reserved.
Meals served aboard El Interamericano are excelled on no other airplane and in few dining places aground. The various courses of the dinner are selected from famous dishes of the countries over which you are flying.
We leave the Canal Zone at 1:10 in the morning, pass through Lima, Peru, at seven a.m. and arrive in Santiago, for our first
stop in the ABC countries, in the middle of the afternoon the same day.
After as much time as we can take to learn all we can about Chile (see pages following) we reboard El Interamericano for what will be one of the shortest legs of our journey, but far and away the most exciting. Flying from Santiago to Buenos Aires, we cross the mighty Andes. Our plane must fly through mountain passes 13,000 to 15,000 feet above sea level, and between peaks above 20,000 feet, so we’ll probably ascend to 20,000 feet or higher. But the cabin is supercharged (pressure of the air is maintained at a level corresponding to a much lower altitude) so we feel no discomfort in breathing. As we pass over the border between Chile and Argentina we can look down and see the statue “Christ of the Andes” placed there in the high mountain pass as a symbol of peace between the two countries.
In Argentina we again make a stop to explore and learn, and then we travel to Rio'de Janeiro on one of the world’s famed air lines—Panair do Brasil, the national air line of Brazil. After our visit in Brazil (again see article on following pages) it is time to go back to the United States.
Now we go aboard “El Presidente”, the PAA service for the east coast of South America.
El Presidente is the last word in luxury air travel—corresponding to “The President,” which is the PAA blue ribbon service across the Atlantic.
Like El Interamericano, it has both sleeperettes and berths. It has also a lounge compartment on the lower deck, for relaxation, chatting, reading and refreshments. Dinner is a seven-course affair such as would be served in the finest hotel restaurant. The flight is planned to go round or above any turbulence caused by weather, and it is such a pleasant and thrilling experience that many passengers feel the time for enjoyment is too short. However, we have been away from home for a week in Chile, another week in Argentina, and still another in Brazil, so we are happy to speed from Rio de Janeiro to New York (see map), a distance of over 4000 miles in less than a day.
G.G.
THE “A. B. C.” COUNTRIES
by Enrique Portes
In May 1915, Argentina, Brazil and Chile signed a treaty which brought about the union known popularly as the “A.B.C.” The “A.B.C.” countries agreed, among other things, to submit any controversy on questions which might arise among them to the investigation of a permanent commission.
Because of this historical treaty and because these countries are among the most important in South America, we have, for our purpose, considered them as a group.
With an area of 1.080,000 square miles, Argentina is more than one third the size of the United States (38 per cent) and occupies the entire southern half of the South American continent, except for the narrow strip west of the Andes that comprises Chile, and the small Republic of Uruguay
on the east. With a population of over 16 million, the Argentine territory is as large as Europe, excluding Russia. Nature has given her the limitless grazing pampas, with navigable rivers, regions covered with every kind of growth. The climate in the center and most thickly settled part is temperate. The northern tip of the Republic is within the tropics and therefore hot, and the southern extremity is very cold.
One of the first things you notice is the reversal of seasons. (The same applies to Southern Brazil and Chile). Christmas, for instance, is in mid-summer. Easter is at the beginning of a cold, rainy autumn. The Fourth of July falls in mid-winter. The cold mornings of August find lawns and window-panes whitened with frost. October’s warm breezes are laden with the heavy
Nov.-Dee., 1951
fragrance of jasmines. In hot December city dwellers pack up their belongings and flock to the seashore in search of fresher air. There you are, pick the season which suits you best.
Brazil is probably the only country in the world to have had its precise geographical frontier established before the land was discovered. Its history began not with the discovery in 1500, but six years before when Brazil, its existence still unknown to Europe, had its borders carefully mapped by the Vatican. In 1494 the Pope, disturbed by the frequent clashes between Spaniards and Portuguese in their expanding African and Asiatic possessions, brought together the two Catholic kings and had them agree to divide all the extra-European world between Spain and Portugal. A line was drawn on a globe—the Meridian of Torde-sillas—running “300 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands.” All undiscovered lands west of the meridian would go to Spain, and those east of the line to Portugal. When Cabral discovered Brazil in 1500, it was established that the meridian passed about 300 miles west of the point where he had landed. In other words, it cut off a long square strip of the continent for the King of Portugal.
When we think of Brazil the Amazon River comes immediately to our minds. It is truly a “sea river” as the Brazilians call it. Reactions to its overwhelming bigness can be read in the astonished expressions of passengers when they fly over it for the first time. When the Pan American Flying Clipper approaches the Amazon near Belem, the stewardess walks along the aisle telling the passengers that they are beginning to cross the world’s greatest river. Twenty minutes later she once more walks the aisle telling them that they have just finished crossing the river. Those who have never made the trip before look at her in puzzlement. It is hard for them to believe that the Amazon is at that point more than 120 miles wide and a fast-flying passenger plane takes twenty minutes to cross it.
The language is the great element of uniformity that has made Brazil a nation instead of a mere geographical expression. The Brazilians talk Portuguese but pronounce it differently, and the curious thing is that this Brazilian accent has remained one and the same throughout the entire length and breadth of the enormous country. The Portuguese and the Brazilian understand each other completely, because they use the same words, the same syntax; but in the intonation, and also partly in their literary expression, the differences have grown stronger, and can be compared with the differences when an Englishman and a North American speak English.
Chile, in contrast to Argentina and Brazil, is a narrow strip of land along the western coast of South America. There are regions in which it suffices to climb a mountain to be able to encompass it all with the naked eye, from cordillera to ocean. On the map Chile appears like a yellow or green fringe bordering the western frontier of Argentina, extending from Peru 2900 miles to the South Pole. With a population close to 5 million, Chile is one of the most democratic countries in this Hemisphere. It has a peaceful and friendly people. In 1902,