Nov.-Dee., 1951
Pah Amer/ca/v
World A/rmvs Teacher
7
BUENOS AIRES — Plaza Congress, showing the Congress Building with the pools, fountains and statues in the foreground.
when the governments of Argentina and Chile were making preparation for war over a boundary dispute, the women and the clergy of the two Republics exerted their influence and peace prevailed. They raised money for a statue of Christ to be set up at the highest point on the disputed boundary. The statue is there and these words are written on a tablet at its base: “Sooner shall these mountains crumble into dust than Argentines and Chileans break the peace to which they have pledged themselves at the feet of Christ the Redeemer.”
As a group, Argentina, Brazil and Chile have contributed much to the culture of the world. In the field of letters the Argentine Domingo Faustino Sarmiento (1811-1888) gained international fame for his Facundo, the study of the career of tyrant Rosas Caudillos. This book gives an insight into Argentine history, customs and temperament. Classic works are also Hernandez’ (1834-1886) Martin Fierro, the epic poem of gaucho life; Güiraldes’ (1886-1927) Don Segundo Sombra, regarded as the most artistic novel on a gaucho theme.
In the field of music, Brazil’s Heitor Vila-Lobos (1881- ) has already gained international fame. Through his splendid originality and his deft use of Brazil’s colorful treasures and traditions, Vila-Lobos has established himself as a leading composer.
Chile’s Gabriela Mistral (1889- ), 1945 Nobel Prize Winner, has become a voice of ft love and pity through her love of children, ™ of mothers, of the poor, of the peasant, of the Indian and the Negro, of all the part of mankind that suffers. Her work, both in prose and in verse, is considered one of the noblest of our times.
Let us visit briefly the main cities of these three countries and by doing so capture the spirit of the inhabitants and share with them their daily life, their aspirations and achievements. Each one of these cities sums up what constitutes the noblest aspirations of Argentines, Brazilians and Chileans.
Buenos Aires
Buenos Aires stands proudly at the edge of the pampas, but porteños (citizens of Buenos Aires) live the same sort of life that New Yorkers do, except that they live it more leisurely. It is one of the world’s largest, busiest and most splendid cities; the largest south of the Equator, and the third in the Western Hemisphere, it is surpassed only by New York and Chicago. The three million people (and the million more counted in the metropolitan area in the 1948 census) give it a quarter of Argentina’s 17 million total.
Buenos Aires lies on the banks of the Rio de la Plata, which is here 28 miles wide, and is 160 miles from the Atlantic Ocean. The city has numerous public gardens, parks and plazas. Many of the principal streets and avenues are bordered with beautiful flowering trees. The new diagonal Avenida Roque Sáenz Peña, with its uniform skyline and architecture, is a great thoroughfare.
The Calle Florida is the main shopping street. Avenida Corrientes is the Broadway. The Avenida “9 de Julio” is said to be the widest avenue in the world. It has five lanes for traffic separated by grass plots and parking space underneath for 1,000 cars.
You are impressed by the international flavor the minute you walk along the boulevards. Sidewalk cafés and ultramodern confiterías (a combination tea house, pastry shop and cocktail lounge on a big scale) where you can go for tea, cakes, ices and vermouth and soda, are found everywhere. The love of crowds, excitement, bright lights and the theatres, is dominant and everywhere there are new restaurants where you can gorge yourself with the best of foods.
Buenos Aires is proud of its famous parks. Plaza de Mayo is one of them where the life of the capital has centered since early days. There you will see at one corner the old cathedral. On the outer wall of this huge and magnificent temple burns an eternal flame lighted to the memory of Argentina’s greatest patriot, General José de San Martin. Across the street from the cathedral is the city hall, a splendid building with beautiful reception rooms and a gallery of art treasures. One side of the building faces Avenida de Mayo, which like Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.G., is lined with lacy pepper trees, stretching its ten-block length between the Casa Rosada (Argentina’s White House) and the Congress building.
The Teatro Colón is one of the finest opera houses in the world. The season starts May 25th with a gala performance attended by the President and his cabinet. The theatre has a national symphony orchestra of one hundred pieces and its opera and ballet company. Internationally famous conductors, singers and dancers appear. Of course, Buenos Aires is a city of music. You drink your coffee, tea or maté to music, the poor and the rich eat and drink to music.
Rio de Janeiro
Rio de Janeiro is the expression of modern Brazil. It is also a city of fervent but leisurely and friendly people, who are proud of the beauty of their Rio.
Its life is not focused on the miles of piers, tucked out of sight so expertly that four thousand ships a year slip in and out almost unnoticed. It is not focused on its magnificent modern business skyscrapers,
hotels and apartments facing the sea, but on the parks, along the high panorama boulevards, on the sidewalk cafés, on the bright umbrella-dotted beaches—eight miles of gleaming white sand—on the vegetable and flower markets: the feiras livres, they are called. No other port on earth has so splendidly utilized and beautified the rare natural beauty with which Rio is endowed.
The city’s name is “River of January” —as the Portuguese called the vast purple harbor—but it is known today as the “Play City of the New World.” It is a city that lives outdoors in eternal warm spring, at sport and boating and fishing clubs; a city which grows excited over horse racing and polo matches, basketball and volleyball, golf and tennis, swimming and yachting. The people are really sport-minded.
Rio must be seen as a whole, in all its majestic beauty and power—perhaps from the Corcovado (Hunchback) or from Sugar Loaf or from the Hill of Glory, or any one of a dozen heights. From the Hunchback, with its great white statue of the Redeemer two thousand feet up, the city is like a dream. At daybreak white mist rolls from the forest, and the sun rises gold and rose in the northeast. At sunset gold glows on tinted walls and the harbor, which turns slowly to deep purple, then to ink. At night the lights ripple along the beach promenades clear to Copacabana and along the great Avenida Branco, and in and out among the hills, on the glistening sands, in the suburbs, ten miles across the water.
Few ports can be compared with Rio. Perhaps Valparaiso, Chile, San Francisco, Calif., and Naples, Italy. But in none does Nature provide such a majestic setting, such vivid contrasts.
The new expanding Rio displays great architectural experimentation and originality. The unusual angles and planes of glass, the flying soaring concrete, the daring adaptations to tropical sunlight—many such startling and often beautiful innovations are purely Brazilian ingenuity. “Dos Nacóes Avenue” with its modern skyscraper architecture is one of the most beautiful and inspiring thoroughfares in the world. The eighteen-story building of the Ministry of