8
Pan American
World Alrmvs Teacher
Nov.-Dee., 1951
RIO DE JANEIRO — The cable car takes visitors to the top of Sugar Loaf Mountain, overlooking the harbor of Rio.
Education—which incidentally resembles the United Nations Headquarters in New York —set in the air on great reinforced concrete pillars, is like a sandwich between two tall slices of almost solid glass.
Few cities are so dedicated to beauty and culture or are so sensitive to fresh ideas from all the world. In few other cities do music and dancing play such an integrated part in daily living. The people of Rio really enjoy themselves. So will you! You will be amazed for example at the number of butterflies. As you walk along the promenades in the parks and beside the sea, on the pavements beneath your feet you will see some of those exquisite tropical wings copied in marble mosaics. And along fashionable Rua Ouvidor will be seen more butterflies in jewelers’ windows. Rio itself is a jeweled city, bordered by an emerald and sapphire sea, with flaming flowers and vivid fruits, a city where stone, steel and concrete seem to turn into precious metal. It is capital of Brazil, the fourth largest country in the world. It is a city you can never forget!
Santiago
Santiago de Chile centers on the hill of Santa Lucia which rises between the Ma-pocho River and the Alameda. It is surrounded by snow-capped mountains and peaks. Among these is Aconcagua, the highest in the Western Hemisphere with an altitude of 22,834 feet. While Santiago has all the features of a modern city, it still retains much of its original charm. If New York has its Fifth Avenue, Santiago has its Avenida de Bernardo O’Higgins, often called Alameda. It is a great boulevard on which are some of the finest residences and modern business houses. This Avenue displays monuments dedicated to the coun-
try’s great men. It has been called Chile’s “Hall of Fame.”
City streets intersect at right angle to each other. The most important ones run into the Plaza de Armas with its Cathedral, the Palace of the Metropolitan Archbishop of Santiago, the Portal Fernández Concha and the Portal MacClure. A block away is the building of the National Congress. The Barrio Cívico is the government of Santiago with many buildings which house the various Ministries and the Central Bank. Quite near are the Hotel Carrera, the office of the newspaper La Nación, and the Palacio de ¡a Moneda, the official residence of the President of the Republic. Santiago is proud also of its Opera House, its University of Chile, Catholic University, Military Academy, and National Library.
Santa Lucia is undoubtedly the best known hill from which you can see the city at its best. It is a hill that rises in the middle of the Capital. In the evening the city disappears in the mist and Santa Lucia has wonders to tell to those who have time to sit on one of the benches, whether alone or not. The roar of the city dies down and becomes a mute growl, as from a sleeping animal, and lights are lit one after another. Long rows of arc lights glow along the Alameda, intersected by the lines of lamps of the side streets and dotted with the strident lilac, red, blue and golden neon signs of the theatres and cinemas. Santa Lucia hill was a gift of Vicuña MacKenna, one of Santiago’s great benefactors, and Chile’s celebrated historian.
San Cristóbal Hill rises about 1,000 feet above the city, and you may go there by funicular (cable railway). The road to the top is lined with gardens, promenades and monuments. There are, of course, other parks—the Cuitiño, the Forestal, and the
Quinta Normal. In Cuitino Park are held every year (September 18th) great military parades celebrating the country’s Independence Day. The Museum of Fine Arts in Forestal Park houses a fine collection of masterpieces by Guido Reni, Van Dyke, Rivera, Murillo, Caravaggio, Rubens and many Chilean artists.
Valparaiso
Valparaiso, Chile’s chief port, looks at night like a necklace of precious stones. The port forms an amphitheatre of hills which border a narrow strip of level land around the bay. Below you can see the commercial section of the city, the squares, the government offices, the maritime district, the wealthy residential homes (Pedro Mont-Almendral), and beyond, a larger extension of tenements, the area of El Baron, named after Ambrosio O’Higgins, father of Chile’s national hero.
Valparaiso and Santiago are different in many respects. Santiago is Spanish-Chilean to its fingertips, proud of its past and most charming to the visitor. Valparaiso is international, smart and enterprising, looking forward to a great future and friendly to all. A massive, colorful architecture looks on the harbor filled with schooners, liners, tramps, and powerful warships—the Chilean Navy.
Valparaiso’s unique street names intrigue the foreign visitor. You will meet up with Pythagoras (Greek mathematician) Street and with Owl Street. Aquiles Reed (a fireman) alternates with Jean-Jacques Rousseau (French essayist and philosopher). There is a street named Pierre Loti, and others named after famous persons and legendary characters—Pelayo, Colo Colo, Leucoton. You may not identify all of them, but Valparaisoans do and will gladly explain them to you.
North of Valparaiso and quite near is Vina del Mar (it means vineyard), the playground of Chile. Vina del Mar stretches along the curve of the bay and lets the swell of the Pacific reach out its arms to it on the warm, white sand. This resort has luxury hotels, bathing beaches, souvenir shops and a world famous Casino. Vina del Mar is reminiscent of the Riviera and Monte Carlo.
The Pampa and the Ombu
About one third of Argentina’s total area is pampas—the boundless, fertile plains, virtually without stone or gravel. The pampa has a fascination, a strange air of the sea as though the sea has suddenly turned to solid earth. This illusion is even more real at night, when the cool breeze blows across the plains and the .stars shining out of the black dome seem to be just beyond reach. The ombu is the only native tree of the pampas. No plant has such an important place in a tradition of a people as the ombu has in the songs and stories of the Argentines. The ombu has an enormous trunk, and its great spreading branches shade an immense space of ground; its knotted roots protrude from the ground, forming convenient resting places for tired horsemen.
Argentine poets have called the ombu “the lighthouse of the pampas” because in the days of the gaucho it frequently was the