10
Pan Am frfcav
Wo bid Airways Teacher
Nov.-Dee., 1951
ments in the Argentine economy. Sugar is produced in sufficient quantities to meet domestic needs ; vineyards supply grapes for the major portion of wine consumed; cotton, alfalfa and tobacco are grown; and considerable quantities of oranges, plums, pears, peaches, apricots, melons and apples are produced. Poultry raising and such dairy products as butter, eggs and cheese are also important factors in the nation’s continual effort for further variation. Almost half of the country’s exports consist of agricultural products.
Because of Argentina’s many advantages in climate and natural pasturage it has long been the primary source of Latin American exports of beef, lamb and mutton. With the development of refrigeration, after 1870, there was a rapid rate of growth of the livestock industry. When markets of Europe were opened to Argentine beef, large quantities of British and American capital flowed to Argentina for investment in the meat packing industry, resulting in the establishment of large chilling and freezing plants (frigoríficos).
To a great extent the success of Argentina as a cattle producing country has resulted from improved pastures, especially from the cultivation of alfalfa, which yields from three to four crops a year without irrigation. Steers fed on alfalfa are marketable a year earlier than those fed on native grass.
As a sheep-grazing country, Argentina is surpassed only by Australia and the Soviet Union, supplying about one-sixth of all the mutton and nearly one-tenth of all the wool entering international trade. In the production of goats, the country is the second ranking country of Latin America, being surpassed only by Brazil. Hog raising is fairly important but pork production is presently consumed at home.
Argentine forest lands furnish choice hardwoods used for fencing and railway construction or for export to neighboring countries, and certain woods utilized for tanning, dyeing and medical purposes. The most important commercial forest product is quebracho, a hard wood yielding a soluble tannin for the leather trade. About 80% of the world’s supply of this wood is in Argentina.
With the exception of petroleum, there is no mineral production of great importance in Argentina. Although the country has a variety of minerals, deposits are either poor or their remoteness and absence of adequate transportation facilities make their immediate development improbable. The most important oil wells are strategically located close to the sea in Southern Argentina, with other potentially important fields located in the northern Andean area. There is practically no production of iron and coal, materials vital to the industrial life of the nation, and so Argentina has become the chief iron and coal importing country of South America.
Despite the need to import iron and coal, there has been a notable development of manufacturing industries. Industrial growth received its initial impetus in the years preceding the end of the First World War, when great strides were made in the processing of foodstuffs and the fabrication of non-durable consumer prod-
RIO DE JANEIRO—A family poses for this picture, pointing to the statue of Christ atop Corcovado.
ucts. During that period inability to obtain supplies of many commodities formerly imported resulted in the establishment of numerous industries, some of which continued to be important after 1918.
However, industrial expansion has been most rapid since 1931. During the depression years (1929-32) manufacturing expanded greatly in volume of output and in variety of commodities produced. The Second World War (1941-45) further stimulated industrialization, and in 1949 industrial output had increased 73% over 1937. During the same period, the number of people working in industry rose 93%.
BRAZIL
Brazil is the second most important trading nation in South America. It occupies a most important position in United States world commerce, particularly as a source of imports. Brazil’s preeminence in United States imports from Latin America is based on that nation’s advantage in the production of coffee. It is the world’s largest producer of coffee and supplies more than one-half of the consumption of the United States, the world’s largest consumer.
Because Brazilian coffee is the greatest export an economic problem arises. The coffee price in world markets is not steady and as it rises and falls so does the purchasing power of Brazil and to some extent its position in United States foreign trade. To try to solve this problem of dependence upon a single commodity, a trend toward diversification has been increasingly evident in recent years. Other leading U.S. imports for which Brazil is our principal supplier include cacao, carnauba wax and numerous edible nuts and oil bearing seeds.
Dependence upon one or a few commodities has been typical of the economy of Brazil in the past. Until about 1910 the nation was the world’s principal source of rubber. However, the development of rubber plantations in Indonesia (then the Dutch East Indies) and British Malaya resulted in the virtual eclipse of Brazil, but during
World War II, with rubber supplies from the East Indies cut off, Brazil’s rubber became exceedingly important. But coffee continues as the primary source of foreign exchange. Relatively poor returns from the coffee crop since 1930 and the relatively high price of United States cotton in world markets led to the transfer of large acreages from the production of coffee to that of cotton. Today Brazil is the third largest producer in the world, with cotton exports representing one-fifth of all exports. Production of cacao', the third most important Brazilian export commodity, has also increased in recent years. Brazil is now the second largest grower in the world, being surpassed only by the African Gold Coast.
It is the money Brazil obtains from the sale of coffee and other commodities abroad which determine the amount of things Brazil can buy from others. The country is a heavy purchaser of manufactured products, principally automobiles, railroad cars, rails and piping, paper, pharmaceuticals, electric generators and equipment and machinery. Raw material imports include gasoline, coal, fuel oils, cement, iron, steel and copper. The chief foodstuffs imported into the country are wheat, beverages, fruits, olive oil and dried cod.
The major portion of Brazilian export and import trade is carried on with the United States. Other countries trading with Brazil are the United Kingdom, Argentina, Germany, Japan, Belgium, Luxembourg, Sweden, Italy, Portugual, the Netherlands and France. United States exports to Brazil are almost entirely manufactured products such as automobiles and parts, electric machinery and apparatus, industrial machinery and petroleum and its by-products.
Tilling of the soil lies at the root of the Brazilian economy and despite the introduction of new industries the country is still essentially agricultural. Brazilian farmers are quick to learn and adopt improved techniques. Thus new crops such as tung and mint have been considerably developed of recent years, while the yield and quality of long established crops have been stepped up by the adoption of up-to-date methods.
Maize is the most important cereal crop grown. Enough wheat is produced to satisfy about 30% of the domestic demand and it is believed that within the near future enough to satisfy the entire home demand will be produced. Bran is exported in considerable quantities. Oats, barley, rye, linseed and potatoes are also grown. Quantities of mandioca are produced for use as flour or farina for bread and for thickening stews. Home grown beans are a staple article of food for the working class. Other crops include tobacco, some of which is exported; rice; and sugar for local consumption only. Herva mate, known as Brazilian tea, grows wild in forests and is also widely cultivated. Brazil produces 44% of the South American supply of this commodity, satisfying domestic needs and exporting some to Argentina and Uruguay. Silk rearing from mulberry trees is practiced on coffee fazendas (farms) with the supply going to local spinning factories.
Conditions in Brazil are excellent for fruit growing and the wide range of climate enables trees from all the intermediate zones