World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 12
of living in this little known country. Contrasts are shown of the sordid and the beautiful, the old and the new.
Filmstrips
1. ANNA AND THE KING OF SIAM -
50 frames, si. with captions, b & w. Instructional Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111. Supplements the motion picture with the same title. Contains stills selected from the feature moving picture, combined with captions and questions intended to stimulate discussion.
2. LIVING IN SOUTHEASTERN ASIA -45 frames, si. with captions, color — Society for Visual Education, 1345 West Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Produced in cooperation with Rand McNally & Co.-— includes sequences on Thailand depicting areas of dense population and the effects on the agricultural and industrial life.
Recordings
The delicate and insinuating sound and rhythm of the music of Thailand is especially effective in several selections performed by native musicians in a 33-1/3 rpm longplay phonograph record album issued by Folkways Records, 117 West 46 Street, N.Y.C., called “Music of Southeast Asia,” P. 423. The vocal and instrumental pieces are representative of the highly cultivated style characteristic of this area. The accompanying brochure includes a description of the music and its social setting.
BANGKOK, OASIS ON A TROUBLED GONTINENT. 26 min. sd. b & w - McGraw-Hill, Textfilm Co., 330 W. 42nd St., New York.
Produced by March of Time, this film opens with the celebration of the Buddhist New Year. Then shows life of the Chinese and Thai people in the city. There is an interesting sequence recording interviews with American executives living there.
CHEEWIT CHOWNA (A Farmer’s Life) -12 min. sd. b & w, color — Tribune Films, 141 E. 44th St., New York City.
This film about the people of Thailand shows what irrigation devices farmers use
WAT PO - Th is is the temple which houses the Reclining Buddha, and the scene here shown is one of the inner gates. The statue of Buddha in this temple is in a reclining position and is 100 feet long.
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
CHANG —90 min. silent b & w — Museum of Modern Art; 11 West 53rd St., New York City.
Depicts the struggle for existence in the Siamese jungle by following the adventures of one small family, their animal friends and enemies. Produced by Paramount and photographed by Merian C. Cooper and Ernest B. Schoedsack.
PAGEANT OF SIAM - 10 min. sd. b & w color. Teaching Films Custodians, Inc., 25 West 43rd St., New York City.
The influence of Western civilization on ancient Siamese habits and customs; Bangkok’s dancing girls accompanied by a native orchestra; authentic music. Peoples and customs, Siamese boxing match.
THAILAND’S STREAMS OF LIFE-10 min. sd. b & w — United Nations Film Division, United Nations, N. Y.
Describes three Technical Assistance projects taking place on the waterways of Thailand; measurement of the river barges, improving their already well-advanced irrigation projects and their flood control projects and helping in the construction of the great Chao Phraya River dam.
In Thailand’s canals and rivers there is a vast fishing industry. Besides rice, fish is the most common food in Thailand and fishing is one of the main occupations. Many clever ways of catching fish are being used here, most of them traditional, developed and used for generations without much thought for modern economy, fish protection or fish cultivation.
Experts have been sent at the request of the Thai Government to survey the field and make recommendations, and now more modern methods of fish cultivation are being developed. Fish, traditionally regarded as a gift of the waters to be accepted as it is offered, is coming to be regarded as a subject for controlled cultivation, like any farm animal, capable of being bred, raised, fed and protected. Thus the people of Thailand profit from their country’s membership in the world-wide family of nations —where knowledge and skill are freely exchange for the benefit of all.
and the way they grow rice. Glimpses of family life show how the people dress, eat, work and play, teach their children and worship.
THAILAND —10 min. sd. b & w, color — Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Pictures Thailand as a land of contrast between the old and the new, as an outpost of democracy — shows the canals of Bangkok, the dominance of the Buddhist religion, t'ice — harvesting, elephants at work in the teak forests and the sports of the country.
WORLD WITHOUT END-45 min. sd. b & w — Brandon Films, Inc., 200 West 57th St., New York City. Produced for Uncsco, directed by Paul Rotha and Basil Wright.
Medicine, agriculture and education in the service of human need is illustrated by the work of Unesco and other United Nations agencies in Mexico and Thailand.
BANGKOK —13 min. sd. b 8c w, color — Almanac Films, Inc., 516 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y.
An unusual view of Bangkok (Thailand) is presented by a trip on a lowly street car. This street car is unique in that it has observed 55 years of growth and change and helps us to understand the problems