BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THAI LA N D	Page 5
says Luang Boribal Buribhand, a great authority on Buddhist iconography, “the simple man’s need to worship and to be protected; they fulfill the philosopher’s need to be reminded, in the midst of the modern world, that there is still a Doctrine that can put an end to pain and suffering.” Bangkok
Seen from the air Bangkok —“The Venice of Asia” as the Thais call their capital — presents an unusual view. The buildings, the roofs of which are covered with glittering tiles and flashing spires, stimulate that traveler’s imagination and make him see a city protected by masses of lances and spears.
Once in the city you discover sharp contrasts everywhere — old sections reminiscent of the past and modern ones which are examples of the vigor of these people. Today, as in old time, the houses, raised on stilts to keep them out of the water at floodtime, are built of light wood or rattan with the roofs thatched.
But, beside the old section of native buildings, a modern city of brick structures has developed. It has grown to number 800,000 inhabitants. In the more picturesque parts of the town one can see rising above the trees the brightly tiled roofs of temples and monasteries and graceful spire of pagodas. Bangkok has nearly 400 Buddhist monasteries, for this capital is the residence of the monks and the spiritual abode of all Buddhists. These monasteries, which play a distinctive part in the social and economic life of the Thai people, are not only schools, hospitals and clubs, but also amusement parks and sport grounds as well as artistic centers for all. During the Katthin ceremonies, right after the Buddist Lent in the last part of the year, is when the great fairs are held. This is the time to see gay and colorful processions on land and water routes leading toward the monasteries. This is when Bangkok shows most vividly its holiday mood.
Bangkok’s active day begins early in the morning. The rush reaches its climax some minutes before 9 o’clock when everybody and everything is in the streets — trams, buses, motor-cars, tricycles, bicycles and even rickshaws and horsedrawn carriages. You will see also the samlor which is a fine improvement over the old rickshaw. The rear wheel of a bicycle has been replaced by two wheels on whose axle is slung a cushioned seat for two. The outfit is geared very low, so that even a little pedaling sets the contraption spinning through the streets. The passenger just has to hold fast for a wonderful ride.
The busiest thoroughfare is New Road. With Yao-Waret Road and Sampeng (the Chinese quarter), it constitutes the emporium of goods in Bangkok and the biggest shopping center in the Kingdom. Most consumer goods imported pass through Sampeng where they are directed to other parts of the country. It is in the shopping district where Bangkok becomes a cosmopolitan center. Great business houses stand side by side selling and competing in the market jammed with goods from all over the world.
It is here also where the visitor can buy
things made in the country — sapphires, ivory products, leather goods made from snake and crocodile skins, lacquer and many other articles. From the streets one can see well-dressed people going through many alleys of fine little shops where tobacco, betel, incense, birds and jades are sold. These alleys are known for the things they sell — lanterns, incense, food in fine restaurants.
Just as New Road is the busiest thoroughfare, Rajadamneru Avenue is the most modern in Bangkok. Patterned after the Champs Elysees in Paris, Rajadamneru Avenue has at one end the Grand Palace and the Temple of the Emerald Buddha and at the other end the Ananta Samakom Throne Hall, now the House of Parliament. The best hotels, government offices, banks and theaters are here.
Bangkok is bounded on the west by the Mcnam River, the main artery of Thailand and the scene of great activity. Hundreds of boats are towed down to Bangkok. On both sides of the river innumerable canals large and small branch off in all directions. Paddle boats, motor boats, steam launches, tiny and large, ply continuously through them; houseboats and shops selling everything from fish sauce to engines line both sides of the waterways. There are floating markets selling vegetables and fish at very low prices.
Though Thailand is proud of her centers of arts, her National Museum and universities, the traveler is always aware that Bangkok, next to Ayuthia has something special — for it is after all a city of temples. Wherever located the Thai temple is an eloquent testimony to the great devotion of the Thai. This religious fervor is evinced in the care and labor lavished on the temple to make it a monument to beauty and devotion. Even the humblest peasants living in hovels will unselfishly combine their
efforts to build a temple that is an artistic triumph, in sharp contrast to their own modest homes. That is why Thai temples have often attracted the visitor — for no two temples are alike. One of the most celebrated is the Temple of the Emerald Buddha. In addition to its masterpiece, the Temple contains a collection of Buddha images, pagodas and murals of great value. The Emerald Buddha is an image of real beauty, 24 inches high cut out of a single piece of transparent green stone. Another is the Marble Temple built by King Chula-longkorn which combines traditional and modern ideas in architecture. And the third famous one is the Temple of Dawn, opposite to the Grand Palace. It is a group of pagodas built on a terrace, four of which stand each in a corner of the terrace while, in the center towering above the others, soars up the fifth, measuring 243 feet high.
On Leaving Thailand
On leaving Thailand you will carry in your memory many happy experiences. You will remember your terrific ride on a samlor competing for every inch of space along the streets of Bangkok. You will not forget the Thai boxing matches in which the boxers use fists, elbows, knees and feet. You might think it is outrageous, but the Thai like it and that is the way it is going to be.
You will remember the brightly tiled roofs of temples and monasteries and the graceful spires of pagodas rising above the trees of eternal green splendor, and the buildings of the Royal Palace, their blue and gold roofs adding their own bit of color.
You will not forget the fact that Thai girls are the most beautiful in the Orient, that Thailand is a joyous land, that Bangkok is the Paris of Asia and a gentle and wonderful place and that in Thailand you heard everywhere people actually laughing.
WAT PRA CHETUPON—The Pra Chetupon (pronounced jade-to-pone) Temple also is called Wat Po or Temple of the Fig Tree. The spired chedi, or pagodas, are tombs for kings of the early Chakri dynasty. In Wat Po is the famous reclining Buddha.