Page 2
World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO THAILAND
The route of our trip to Thailand is shown on the map.
As Thailand is half way around the world from the United States, we can proceed in either direction to get there. Afterward, the sensible thing to do is to continue around the world to get home.
We’ll discuss our plans with an agent at a PAA ticket office, or with a travel agent, either of whom can reserve our Clipper space, and in addition advise us regaining other matters.
A passport will be required, so we must make application for it at the Passport Division of the State Department in Washington, or at one of the branch offices in other cities. Then we’ll get the information about the requirements of Thailand for entry in clearance also the same information for other countries which we will visit on our way to Thailand, and on our journey onward to the United States and home.
As these vary from country to country, this article will list only those applicable to Thailand itself.
First there is the matter of a visa, which is an entry made in the passport by a representative in the United States of the country which we are to visit. The visa may be obtained at the country’s embassy or ministry in Washington, or at a consular office wherever it may be in the U. S.
But in the case of Thailand a visa is not required if the visit is less than thirty days. Thailand does require us to bring along three extra photographs. We need also a certificate showing that we have a recent small pox vaccination. We need a similar certificate showing that we have had inoculations against typhoid and cholera, if we pass through an infected area in order to get to Thailand — this is a routine requirement in the Orient, so it is standard practice to have these inoculations when travelling to any of the countries in the Far East.
Other requirements listed for Thailand include these: No radio set, guns or ammunitions may be brought into the country, but such may be left in bond at the airport and reclaimed at the time of departure. Thailand permits a traveller to bring in 100 cigai'ettes or 50 cigars without paying duty on them.
Now those are the requirements for Thailand, and the other countries at which we may stop over will have similar, but some-
what different requirements, and we must be prepared to observe them.
Next, we’ll want to make plans regarding the clothes to be taken. A good source of information is a travel guide such as “New Horizons” published by Pan American World Airways. Here is what New Horizons suggests about wardrobe:
“WHAT TO WEAR ... In Bangkok you’ll wear the same sort of clothes as you would in Nassau, Acapulco (Mexico) or Hong Kong. The Thais, Americans and Britishers resident in Bangkok wear linen suits a great deal, so take along some white linen suits or ones of comparable weight. Of course, those old standbys — a light sports jacket and slacks, will come in handy. The laundry facilities are so good that you can have a linen suit washed overnight. For women, washable linen and cotton dresses are perfect. Don’t forget your bathing suits and sunglasses. Generally speaking, Bangkok is not a ‘dressy’ place.”
A third part of trip planning and preparation consists of learning as much as possible about Thailand by reading, looking at pictures and motion pictures, and whenever possible, by talking to people who have been there. And that is exactly what the study unit in these pages is intended to provide — for an imaginary trip at this time, and possibly for an actual trip later on.
So let’s get on with the imaginary trip. Our departure from the United States may be from any of four gateway cities, Seattle, Portland, San Francisco or Los Angeles. Which shall it be? All right, then, San Francisco.
The Clipper leaves from San Francisco’s fine new International Airport, on San Francisco Bay about ten miles to the south of the city — its address actually is South San Francisco.
The first leg of the trip is from San Francisco to Honolulu, a distance of 2,400 miles, and although it certainly is overseas, we will still be in the United States when we get to Hawaii, so there are no more formalities about the departure than there would be for any other place in the United States.
Our flight departs at 11:30 p.m., so we report at the airport ticket counter and hand in our ticket about 11 o’clock. Our baggage goes on the scale — if it is more than 66 pounds on first class, or 44 pounds
on tourist, a charge for excess baggage will be collected. But most passengers find the allowance adequate, even for a trip around the world, and do not have to pay for excess. The larger pieces of baggage will be checked, and we’ll carry toilet articles and other small possessions in a blue PAA overnight bag, which we’ll keep with us.
Our seat will be reserved, and a card attached to the ticket will have a notation of the assigned. So when we go aboard the stewardess will show us to the seat saved for us. When all the other passengers are aboard, too, the door of the Clipper will be closed, the steps will be removed, and the engines will be started one after another. If you wonder why the airplane does not move away from the ramp immediately, it is because the Captain and his crew on the bridge are checking the scores of dials on the instrument panels to make sure that everything is functioning normally.
Also, the Captain is in communication with the control tower, for he must have clearance from the controller before he moves out to the end of the runway.
He has it now — we’re rolling along the ramp. We go out along a taxiway, and pause again at the head of the runway. Here the Captain waits for a second clearance from the tower, which will be given the moment any other aircraft ahead of us for either takeoff or landing has completed this operation. Meanwhile, the Captain again checks the dials on the instrument panels, “guns” each engine in turn to take readings on its performance. When he is quite ready, he asks for clearance to take off, and when he gets it, away we go.
We’re headed for Honolulu now. In the comfortable passenger cabin we relax and read, talk, enjoy a full course meal served by the stewardesses, have a nap, or a ftdl night’s sleep if it is an overnight flight, and about ten hours later Diamond Plead looms over the horizon and we know we’re completing the first leg of our journey.
Similarly, we continue from Honolulu to Wake Island, which is a coral atoll in the western part of the Pacific where there is a base for servicing and weather reporting, then to Tokyo, to Hong Kong and finally to Bangkok, in Thailand.
Or we may go by way of Guam and Manila, as indicated on the map.
Arriving at Bangkok, we have been on our way from California only 49 hours.