Page T-2
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Superintendent, Educational Services
Copyright, 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, providod source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U, S. A.____________
ROUND-THE-WORLD CONTEST
When the Belgian weekly for teenagers Risque-Tout decided to have a contest, it hit upon popularity of the nations as the contest theme, and a trip around the world as the prize.
Readers were invited to list the 23 countries which they thought were most popular in Belgium, in the order of popularity, and to give their reasons for selecting the country at the head of the list.
In the order of preference which was submitted most frequently, the United States fared well, being at the head of the list. So, when this group of entries was segregated, and winners were to be determined on the basis of explanatory comments, the contest resolved itself into a comparison of comments on the U.S.A., and when the winners were certified, there were two from Belgium and one from France.
A photograph of the winners, and the Risque-Tout writer who accompanied' them on their world tour, appears below.
Left to right: Mr. Joe Anthierens, of the magazine "Risque Touts," Claude Choir, Lieven Mestdagh, both Brussels, and Jean-Claude LeRoy, Paris.
P/\A! AM£ ft/CM
World Airways Teacher
Down Linder: The Olympics
The athletes who will represent the United States at the Olympic Games in Melbourne, Australia November 22 to December 8 will travel by Flying Clipper.
A fleet of seven aircraft, including three new Douglas Super-7 Clippers, two Boeing “Strato” Clippers and two Super-6 Clippers has been assigned to this mass movement of 380 athletes and 48 officials, trainers, doctors and nurses. All will leave from Los Angeles.
On November 4 the passenger load will comprise 14 members of the canoeing team, 19 wrestlers and 31 officials and others. Then on November 5, there will be a departure for 28 track and field stars, 21 fencers and 5 members of the pentathlon group. On November 6, there will be 45 additional men for track and field events, 11 members of the women’s track and field group and 8 women gymnasts.
On November 7, 36 oarsmen, 10 weight-lifters, 13 water polo stars and 6 trainers will fly out of Los Angeles. A flight leaving November 8 will take 53 members of the shooting, boxing, cycling, men’s gymnastic and men’s swimming teams, and a trainer. The rest of the men and women swimmers, plus 12 yachtsmen and additional officials will take off November 9.
On the final flight, leaving November 11, will be 15 basketball players, 16 members of the field hockey team and 33 others.
Frying High
Panagra’s (Pan American-Grace Airways) passengers flying south between Panama and Lima, or northbound from Panama to Miami now may have sizzling hot fried or scrambled eggs for breakfast.
Special electric frying pans which have been added to galley equipment on the de luxe DC-7B flights enable pursers to prepare eggs, bacon and other breakfast dishes in the plane, minutes before serving. And Pan-agra Chef Mike Clavarino has checked out each purser, steward and stewardess in “Sunny Side Up,” “Over Easy,” “Basted,” “Under the Lid” and every other known method of cooking eggs, so that passengers’ preferences may be served.
School for Travel
The American Society of Travel Agents this fall conducted the first school in the air for travel agents who want to learn to be better travel agents.
Travel experts from Michigan, Ohio and Kentucky participated in the program, arranged by the Mid-America Chapter of the A.S.T.A., with the cooperation of Pan American World Airways.
Twenty-five “students” took the “course” which took the form of a group tour from Miami to San Juan, Puerto Rico, St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands, Ciudad Trujillo, Port-au-Prince, Kingston and Montego Bay. Attendance at the Dominican World Fair, and inspection of air transportation facilities and hotels was included in the indoctrination of the travel group.
By Flying Clipper to Mecca
Over 1,800 Muslims from Afghanistan made the pilgrimage to Mecca this year via Flying Clipper for the trip to Jidda, or back to Kandahar, or both.
Pan American World Airways, under contract to the International Cooperation Administration, set up the mass movement on a week’s notice.
A Pan Am aircraft made the 3,650-mile round trip journey from Kandahar in Afghanistan to Jidda in Saudi Arabia, with a refueling stop at Bahrein on the Persian Gulf. Aryana, the Afghan national airline, which also carried pilgrims, contributed fuel, maintenance and landing field facilities to the charter arrangement.
The Pan Am plane carried 824 pilgrims to Jidda in a 23-day period beginning June 21. Aryana carried about 600. On the return flights, Pan Am carried more than 1,000 passengers back to Kandahar, beginning on July 23.
Clippers flying out of Kandahar, after returning pilgrims to their home country, avoided dead head flights by taking aboard karakul wool. They moved 60,000 kilos of the wool, all that was available in the country for export at the time the flights were taking place.