Page 10
World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
DANCERS—In an old temple used as a school, classical dancers from the School of Dramatic Arts, Department of Fine Arts, pose for the camera. The bronze figures are Kinara, or male, semi-human, mythical birds.
IV. DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1.	What effect will the increasing tourist trade have on Thailand?
2.	Give your opinion of the stand taken by Thailand at the recent Suez conferences.
3.	Did Abraham Lincoln have any effect on the King’s ideas about slavery?
4.	What in your opinion is the future of Thailand with respect to further expansion in industry and her place in the family of nations?
5.	Why is Bangkok compared to Venice?
6.	Why is the attitude of the United States to Thailand watched closely by other nations?
BIBLIOGRAPHY THAILAND (SIAM)
(NOTE: There is not too much written about this country. Much information will have to be obtained from articles in current magazines and newspapers)
North to the Orient — Lindbergh — Harcourt
Keepers of the Elephant Valley — Campbell Random House
Magazine Articles
Look-June 16, 1953
Science News Letter — October 10, 1953
Vogue — October 15, 1953
New Yorker —March 6, 1954
Newsweek — July 26, 1954
Colliers — October 15, 1954
Foreign Affairs — October 1954
Readers Digest — December 1954
Rotarian — December 1954
Holiday — October 1955
Natural History —June 1956
Time —July 9, 1956
New Horizons — Pan American World Airways
(For Further Information: Thailand Delegation to United Nations, 20 East 82 St., New York City.; Thailand Government Trade Commission, 27 Wall Street, New York City.)
TO HELP YOU WITH YOUR READING
accessible
alluvial
ample
antimony
aquiline
artisan
assumed
betel
caste
connoisseur coup d’etat
depicted
distended
dominant
durians
approachable, easy referring to earth deposited by water
a great amount, sufficient a silver white metallic element
curving, hooked
trained workman, superior
mechanic
supposed, undertook leaves of a shrubby plant which are used for chewing hereditary classes into which society is divided a good judge a change of policy in government described, portrayed expanded, swollen ruling, governing tall elm like forest trees, seeds roasted like chestnuts
DANCERS—The man in the mask is Ra-vana, chief of the demons, in the epic of Ramayana.
Picture Map Geography of Asia — Quinn — Lippincott
From Bangkok to Bombay — Carpenter — Doubleday
Brown Women and White — Freeman — Day
Thailand Journey —— Blake — Lord,
Lord, Redman
Anna and the King of Siam — Landon — Day
Siam Doctor — May — Doubleday
Siamese Harem Life — Leonowens — Dutton
East of Siam — Franck — Century
A History of Southeast Asia — Hall —
St. Martin
Elephant Boy of Teak Forest — Sowers — Messner
A Child’s Geography of the World —
Hillyer — Appleton-Century-Crofts
Lands and Peoples (Vol. VI) — Thompson — Grollier
Geography of the World — Packard, etc.— Macmillan
Golden Letter to Siam — Bothwell & Sowers Abelard-Schuman
DANCERS—Ravana, chief of the Demons, is forcing his attentions upon Sita, wife of the hero in Ramayana.