BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
___________THAILAND____________________Pages
Thailand-Land of the Free
By Enrique Portes
It would be easy to think of Thailand in terms of King Mongkut’s exciting period so well depicted in Miss Margaret Landon’s Ami a and the King of Siam. And it would be even easier to quote the King’s eloquent speech “etcetera, etcetra, etcetera” and end there our story. Anyone who has seen that magnificent motion picture “The King and I” will hardly forget what Thailand was at that time, and might even assume that conditions in that country have not changed much since then. Of course, they have changed — and considerably indeed.
Fiction, though based sometimes on facts, has a peculiar way of telescoping innumerable events. The truth of the matter is that King Mongkut and his son, Chula-longkorn, reigned 59 years, and the latter whom we see at the end of the motion picture crossing his arms and spreading his sturdy legs apart, as the now dead king did, went beyond his father as a student and reformer. Both kings introduced various reforms. The first was the abolition of slavery as a result of King Mongkut’s admiration for Lincoln. The second reform benefited the higher classes, for it relieved them from bodily prostration in thé presence of the sovereign.
King Mongkut’s life, as you are aware, has been dramatized considerably both in Miss Landon’s book and in the motion picture of 1956. According to the Royal Museum of Bangkok, the King did enjoy dressing up. History tells us, however, that the King was 47 years of age when he assumed the rule. He was twenty when he should have inherited the throne, but his brother assumed power, and during twenty-seven years while his brother reigned, King Mongkut lived quietly in a Buddhist monastery, studying Siamese, Pali and Buddhism — a religion that teaches that life is intrinsically full of suffering, and the supreme felicity (Nirvana) is to be striven for by psychological and ethical self-culture. Later he studied Latin with a French bishop and English with an American missionary.
The history of Thailand goes back many, many centuries. The Thai, who originated in southwest China and had penetrated after the 6th-7th century into what is now north Thailand, formed the first truly Thai state in 1257. The history of this country may be divided into three periods: (1) the period when Sukhodai was the capital, 1257-1349;	(2) the period when Ayuthia
was the capital, 1350-1767; and (3) the period since Bangkok has been the capital, or 1768 onwards. We shall end this point by saying that Phya Chakri founded the present Chakri dynasty which has given Thailand a succession of capable and interesting rulers, among others King Mongkut, 1851-1868; his son, King Chulalongkorn, 1868-1910; his son, King Vajiravudh, 1910-1925; his younger brother, King Prajadhipok, 1925-1935; his nephew, King Ananda; and
the reigning King Phumipon. Like King Ananda, King Phumipon was studying in Switzerland when he was called to Thailand. In 1950 His Majesty married Princess Sirikit.
Before 1932, Thailand was an absolute monarchy. After the coup d’etat of that year Thailand became a Constitutional Monarchy. Replaced in 1949, the Constitution of 1932 was re-instated in 1951. According to this Constitution the supreme power rests with the nation, and the King exercises the legislative power by and with the consent of Parliament, the executive power through the Council of Ministers, and the judicial power through the Courts.
The Thai Parliament consists of the House of Representatives which is composed of two categories of members, equal in number. Members of the first category are those elected by a direct and secret ballot for a term of four years. The members of the second category are those appointed by the King. By virtue of the Constitution, the sovereign power emanates from the people; the person of the King is sacred and inviolable; the King professes the Buddhist Faith and upholds all religions; all persons are equal before the law; the rights of the individual are guaranteed; the State guarantees freedom of the press and speech, etc.
Education is considered of great importance and receives substantial support. Primary and secondary schools are being built in large number all over the country. Textbooks are distributed free. There are many schools and institutes for the training of teachers. National seminars on education are held regularly in Bangkok. Their main objective is to solve one problem — primary education.
As to university education, Thailand has five universities. These universities offer education in arts and science, architecture, engineering, medicine, agriculture, law, economics, social welfare and library service. For a long time Thailand has been sending students abroad for special studies. Most of the foreign-trained students have returned home and filled key positions in every field. Many Thai students have been awarded scholarships and fellowships offered by the United States and various United Nations specialized agencies. As a result of which there are today thousands of Thai students pursuing various courses of study abroad.
Thai Means "Free"
Thailand, formerly known as Siam, lies between Indochina to the east, Burma to the west, and Malaya to the south. As a result of its geographical position, it has always been politically independent. In area it is about the size of France, and has a population of some 18,000,000.
The great majority of the inhabitants are Thai, in which group are included the Laos or the northern and eastern Thai. Next come the immigrant population of Chinese and a considerable number of Indians, Cambodians, Burmese and Mons. The Thais have adopted most of their cultural traits from India. Hinduism was introduced by Indians who had settled on the coast of south Thailand. Later, Buddhism became the dominant religion and it remains the official religious belief of the country to this day.
Thailand may be readily divided into four major regions: the Menam River basin, the Khorat Plateau of eastern Thailand, the northern mountains, and the south region. The core area is the basin of the Menam, where almost half of the popula-
WAT ARUN—The Temple of the Dawn. This temple, seen here from the Chao Phraya River, is considered the most picturesque of the hundreds in Bangkok. Thousands of pieces of colored china were inserted in the plaster covering the brick foundation.