World Airways Teacher Page 6	STUDY UNIT
Thailand’s Economy
By Lou A. Phillips
Thailand is an old land, its recorded history beginning with the founding of the ancient city of Ayuthia in 1350. Ayuthia eventually becamq the capital of a Kingdom. During the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries the Kingdom of Siam, as it was called, was invaded many times by neighbors attracted by the great wealth of Ayuthia. The nation’s power was extended southward into the Malay Peninsula and eastward into French Indo-China, then called Cambodia. In 1612 an English ship ascended the Menam River sixty miles as far as Ayuthia and in 1620 the first Portuguese missionaries arrived.
In 1759 the Burmese finally captured Ayuthia and then occupied the entire country. They introduced a Burmese King who reigned for about a dozen years. At the end of that period a Chinese leader of a band of freebooters seized Bangkok and expelled the Burmese. He proclaimed himself King and as such extended Siamese power further southward and eastward. In 1782 the Chinese leader was assassinated by one of his generals who established the present dynasty.
In 1820 intercourse with the West was encouraged and a trade treaty was signed with Great Britain in 1826. A similar treaty was signed with the United States in 1833. From this time on Thailand’s independence lias been guaranteed by the two European powers having a territorial interest in the Indo-Chinese peninsula — England and France. This has given the nation an opportunity to concentrate its activities on improving general domestic conditions and expanding foreign trade.
In 1917 Thailand declared war on the Central Powers and sent an ambulance detachment to the Western Front late in 1918. As an Associated Power it had delegates at
the Peace Conference in 1919 and became a member of the League of Nations.
The nation’s pre-war position as the only sovereign state of southeast Asia was responsible for the unique status it held during Japan’s expansion into Asia. When the land was finally occupied by the Japanese, interference with the local administration and exploitation of its resources were far less drastic than in neighboring areas. The Japanese Government used Thailand as an example of its proposed treatment of other Asiatic lands, once they became members of Japan’s proposed co-prosperity sphere.
Despite the fact that technically Thailand was at war with the Allies from 1941 to 1946 and despite the food and equipment it was forced to furnish Japan, an effective underground thrived in the nation. Thailand became an important listening post and a source of information concerning Japanese strategy for the Allies.
This secret cooperation was the basis for United States support of much less vindictive demands against the Thai people after the war than were voiced by the British Government. Eventually a peace agreement was signed between Britain, India and Siam bringing to an end the state of war which existed between the three countries.
Both countries also undertook to support Thailand’s candidacy for membership in the United Nations. In the early Nineteen Thirties Thailand was about seventeen days away by ship from the United States. Today Pan American World Airways Clippers arrive in Bangkok, the nation’s capital, in three days. Development of this direct transportation and communication is indicative of the increased economic and political intercourse which has developed between the United States and Thailand.
Until the Second World War, although
Thailand’s political independence had been preserved, as far as the country’s economic -relations with the outside world were concerned it was under British influence. Great Britain had important tin and teak concessions and rubber production was shipped to British Malaya and then re-exported to the United States. With the economic decline of Great Britain, however, Thailand began to move into the Dollar orbit. This move was actually more of a common sense measure as dollars became the media by which they could buy more of what they wanted. Thailand depends on imports for most of its manufactured and consumer goods. Principal exports from the United States to Thailand include petroleum products, electrical and industrial machinery, iron and steel products, dairy products and agricultural implements.
In 1947 the first tin ore was sent from Thailand directly to smelters of Texas City, Texas, and a definite trend has become evident for the United States to purchase more rubber and tin ore directly, paying in dollars.
American influence in Bangkok is also growing in other ways. United States firms have increased. The Bangkok Post, edited and published by an American, is growing in influence yearly. American mining engineers are surveying south Thailand for new deposits of tin. American lumbermen are brushing herds of pygmy elephants out of their way in a search for timber tracts available for lease in the north. Pan American Clippers landing at Bangkok’s Don Muang Airport are constantly bringing to Thailand business men who are beginning to regard Thailand as a likely prospect for future investment and development.
The principal rivers are the Menam and its tributary, the Nam Sak.
RIVER FRONT—The Mae Nam Chao Phraya (Mae Nam is Thai for river) flows past Bangkok, which is on its east bank, and here pictured. Opposite is the city of Thonburi. Bangkok's population, with Thonburi included, is about 1V2 million. Photo shows the floating markets at the river's edge, and behind these markets, some of the beautiful temples.