Page 11
dynasty	supreme rule, a succession in one line of the family
eclipse	obscure, hide
eloquent	convincing
emanates	originates
embodied	collected, incorporated
emporium	the chief market
ethical	moral
evinced	made evident, showed plainly
exploitation	using for one’s own advantage
felicity	happiness, content
fervour	zeal, warmth
guavas	trees, jelly made from their fruit
iconography	pictorial representation, collection of representations
indicative	suggests, imitation
innumerable	very numerous
intermittent	interrupted
intercourse	exchange, communication
intrinsically	truly, real
inundated	overflowed, submerged
inviolable	cannot be broken
litchie	fruit from a Chinese tree
mangos teens	reddish brown fruit of an East Indian tree
mangrove	a tropical tree
media	pertaining to a way of doing things
molybdenum	element used to harden steel
monsoon	a wind that blows along the Asiatic coast
montons	heaps of ore
ordained	appointed, established
pigmy	small person ranging 4 to 5 feet high
pomegranates	fruit with many seeds
potentate	one having great power, a ruler
potential	possible, not yet existing
precise	exact, accurate
prostration	falling flat, bowing low
protuberance	swelling, bulging
reverence	great respect
savannah	treeless plains, level lands with low vegetation
sect	particular creed, a denomination
seminars	courses of study
similes	likenesses
smelters	where ore is melted
stereotyped	cast, reproduced
telescoping	forcing into one another
terra cotta	hard pottery, brownish orange in color
transverse	lying across
tributary	part of a river system
unique	only one of its kind, rare, uncommon
upheavals	changes in existing conditions
veneration	reverence, worship
vindictive	revengeful
wolfram	source of tungsten, iron and manganese
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THAILAND
WAT BENCHAMABAPIT — The Marble Temple is regarded as a gem of modern Thai religious architecture. It has one of the finest collections of bronze and stone Buddhas from every corner of the world.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
LOCATION . . In the southeast corner of Asia between Burma on the west, and French. Indo-China on the east. Malaya is to the south, as is also the Gulf of Siam (part of the China Sea), and China to the north.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The people of Thailand (pronounced tie-land) are Mongolian. Those in the north and northeast are much fairer in color than those in the south. Along the river plains are rice fields as far as the eye can see. This is really the wealth of the country —Thai rice. Among other profitable exports are tin, rubber, and teak. In the north, there is teak everywhere. Natives cut down teak trees and employ elephants to drag them to the banks of the rivers in order to float them downstream to the sawmills. Tourists will be struck by the pleasantness and almost childlike cheerfulness of the Siamese. Moderation even in virtue is the outstanding characteristic of Siam. As the Spaniard says manana, so the Siamese say mai ben rai. It means “never mind.”
POPULATION • • In 1947 Thailand had a population of 17,324,291. It is now said to be about 18,000,000, or about the same as the Philippines.
SIZE . • • The area of Thailand is 200,148 square miles, which is about the size of the states of New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia and North Carolina combined.
CAPITAL • • ■ Bangkok, including the city of Thonburi, directly across the river, has a population of over one million inhabitants. It is the largest city in Southeast Asia.
GOVERNMENT . . . Until 1932 Siam was an absolute monarchy. Since then it has been a constitutional monarchy.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Clipper, Bangkok is approximately 39(4 hours (elapsed time) from our West Coast and approximately 48 hours from New York. By ship to Kohsi-chang Anchorage (52 miles south of Bangkok in the Gulf of Siam) 50 to 60 days from New York, depending on the ports of call en route.
The information presented above is from the FA A travel guide book “New Horizons,” now available in a fully revised new edition, with hard cover, published for PAA at $1.00 by Simon and Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.