Thailand is greatly dependent on its river system for two reasons. It affords a means of interior transportation particularly for rice and teak; and the rise of the rivers to flood level during the rainy season assures the necessary irrigation for the all-important rice crop. Practically all the towns and rural montons, or divisions of the nation are accessible from the Capital by means of rivers or canals.
Thailand has a tropical climate and in some sections extremely heavy rainfall. There are three seasons: the cool season which begins about the middle of November and extends until the middle of February; the hot season starting about the middle of February until the middle of May; and the rainy season beginning about the first of June and lasting until November. The average temperature in the shade at Bangkok is 82 degrees. During the hot season the thermometer often reads over 100 degrees, while in the cool season the temperature comes down to 60 degrees as a result of northeastern winds.
Agriculture is by far the country’s leading industry. Rice is the principal crop, the main article of diet and accounts for about two-thirds of the nation’s exports. Thailand produces enough rice to feed its entire population. Surplus quantities are exported mainly to British Malaya. Nearly 90% of the area under cultivation is devoted to rice fields. Fresh and salt water fish are numerous and form the second most important item of the population’s diet.
The nation’s prosperity depends in a large measure on the successful yield and marketing of the rice crop with all other products of small importance in comparison. These other products include tobacco, maize, cotton, sugar cane, fruits, coconuts and pepper. Thailand is well known for the abundance and quality of its fruits. Such southeast Asian fruits as mangos, mangosteens, litchis, durians, pomegranates, guavas and pineapples abound. Rubber production is also a growing industry.
Thailand is rich in minerals including tin, antimony, copper, lead, molybdenum, tungsten, zinc, wolfram, coal, iron, zinc, manganese, gold, silver, and precious and semi-precious stones, especially rubies and sapphires. Little actual mining is carried on however with tin the only mineral worked to any extent. Deposits of the other metals have not yet been found in large enough quantities to justify large scale development. Tin however is the nation’s second most important export today.
Thailand is rich in timber. The export of teakwood ranks third in the nation’s business and there are also other woods of many varieties awaiting development. The dense forests yield ebony, dyewoods, resinous woods and rosewood. Sticklac, gums, wood oils and resin are obtained in commercial quantities.
Manufacturing is limited to rice and teak mills, cement and soap factories, some small tanneries, several tile factories, hand-loom textile establishments, small furniture factories, several ice plants and other small concerns. The Chinese monopolize most of the important industries as well as the retail and artisan trades except in the case of
BY FLYING CUPPER TO
THAILAND
the larger European houses. The few industrial plants are located in Bangkok.
Between 85% and 90% of the country’s total imports pass through Bangkok. Bangkok is also the only port of importance as far as exports are concerned. Foreign trade is also in the hands of large European and Chinese concerns to a great extent. Chinese play an important part in the commercial activity of the country although the major portion of imported manufactured goods are brought in by European firms.
Eighty per cent of the population are Siamese, a light-hearted, hospitable, gentle people of Mongolian stock. The remainder is made up Chinese, Indians, Malays, Cambodians. Annamites, Shans and Burmese. There are about 2,000 Europeans and Americans with the British outnumbering the Americans about ten to one. Two-thirds of the foreign population is centered in Bangkok. Chinese migration into Thailand has always been considerable and a large portion of the present Thai population is of Chinese extraction.
Until 1932, Thailand was an absolute monarchy. In that year however, the King’s powers were cut back by a Constitution that provided for an Assembly of the People’s Representatives. Executive authority is administered by the King, assisted by a council of fourteen to twenty-four members. Men and women over twenty years of age have the right to vote.
The public school system is under the Minister of Public Instruction. Elementary education is free and compulsory. In addition to the public school system, there are a number of foreign missionary schools. There are also a number of secondary schools, as well as government teachers training schools, Chulalongkorn University, Kaesetsart University, University of Medical Sciences and the University of Moral and Political Sciences.
Bangkok is the chief business center and Capital. Firms in the smaller towns look to Bangkok as their chief source of supply. The city has a population of about 700,000. It is 994 miles from Singapore and 1,553 miles from Hong Kong. The city is clean and modern with many parks. There are ultra-modern houses lining the one hundred and sixty-five foot wide Rajdamern Avenue in the suburbs. In Bangkok the Grand Palace is actually a walled town covering more than one square mile. Bangkok has floating food shops, sampan fleets of country farmers who crowd the canals of the city bringing in a variety of foods to the urban dwellers.
In addition to Bangkok’s direct access by air it may be reached from Penang in British Malaya by rail, from Singapore by steamer, and from Saigon in French Indochina by overland routes during certain times of the year or by infrequent steamer service. The Siam Navigation Company runs two coastwise lines from Bangkok. In addition to the many foreign vessels which enter the Port each year, regular service is maintained between the Capital, Hong Kong and other southern Chinese ports.
Thailand has very few towns with a population of over 10,000, the majority of the people being scattered in townships and
Page 7
villages. It is even difficult to estimate the popidation of Thai towns as the census usually includes surrounding vicinities as well. The capitals of the provinces are often only a few houses gathered around a market place and the offices and residence of the Governor.
The principal city in northern Siam is Chiengmai, 466 miles from Bangkok. It is the terminus of the northern railway line, headquarters for some teak companies and the northern headquarters for the activities of the American Presbyterian Mission. Some overland trade is transacted with Burma. The vicinity has a cool bracing climate during the winter months.
Not far from Chiengmai and connected by highway with it as well as with Bangkok is Lampang which is probably a greater business center than Chiengmai. Connected with the extreme northern portion of the country by highway, the city serves as a focal point for trade with the Shan States. Other towns of importance are Haad Yai, center of tin, rubber, and coconut producing regions; Puket, center of tin deposits; and Korat the principal city in northeast Thailand and a center of silk weaving and livestock raising.
The development of international aviation made heretofore isolated Thailand the aerial gateway to the Far East. Local aviation was first inaugurated in 1922 by the Army but since 1930 it has been developed by private companies. Thai air routes cover the kingdom and join it to near-by points in India, Hong Kong, French Indo-China and Malaya. Civil aviation is administered by the Civil Aviation Board which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Communications. Air navigation laws and regulations are the responsibility of the Ministry of Defense. Planes of Pan American World Airways, KLM, Royal Dutch Airlines, Air France, British Overseas Airways, Pacific Overseas Airways, Cathay Pacific, Philippine Airlines and Trans Asiatic Airlines now call regularly at Bangkok.
The air traveler will like Thailand. There is much to see that is different. The newer houses in the Capital are built with brick and mortar. Many people live in houses constructed on boats which abound in the rivers near Bangkok. Many houses are formed wholly of wood or bamboo roofed with palm leaves and mostly raised on piles as along the Ganges in India.
The caste system, such as that in India, does not exist in Thailand. The dress of both men and women consists of the panting, a yard-wide piece of cloth three yards long which is wound around the waist so that it hangs down and covers the thighs. Most of this cloth, formerly homespun, is now machine-made and imported from Great Britain and India. Silk is used instead of cotton by the wealthy and nobility. Family meals are eaten with members squatting around dishes placed on the floor. Spoons, forks and knives are used only by the upper classes with most people eating with their fingers. Foreign drinks are confined to a very few people. The intoxicating beverage of the people is arak which is brewed from rice and sugar. Tobacco is more commonly used for chewing than for smok-