Page 4
IVofìio	Aìrmee Teacher
STUDY UNIT
tion is concentrated. Fifteen miles inland from the Gulf of Siam is Bangkok, the capital. Only 15 per cent of the entire area, the richest in Thailand, is under cultivation, so that ample room exists for further farm expansion.
Rain-forest covers the highlands on either side of the basin and could be converted to dry fields in case of future land needs. Thick mangrove swamps line parts of the delta and bamboo grows luxuriantly along stream courses inland.
Flood waters exert a marked influence on life in much of the basin. As far north as Ayuthia paddies are flooded annually and boats are the only means of getting from one place to another. “Floating paddies” are common. Villages are strung along level and high ground, and the farmer takes the precaution to elevate his simple dwelling of bamboo and thatch on stilts.
Numerous canals connecting major rivers and streams are principal arteries for moving goods between farms and towns. Despite its eclipse by Bangkok, Ayudhya is still Thailand’s leading market for water-borne commerce.
In contrast to the farm lands of the Menam Valley, the Khorat Plateau to the east is a sterile area whose small population is poor. The plateau, with its sandy soils, presents a monotonous landscape of savannah.
In northern Thailand, parallel chains of mountains running from north to south split the region into transverse valleys with a few rich alluvial plains. The mountain slopes are peopled by primitive tribes who follow a shifting agriculture. In the largest of the plains lies Chiang Mai, the chief city of the northern region. The northern mountains are the locale of the teak tree, one of the country’s most important assets. The southern region, running from the
Menam Valley south into the Malay Peninsula, has rich mineral deposits, good transportation facilities, and beautiful scenery. Living in the southern region is more pleasant than in any other part of Thailand. The crack train from Bangkok to Singapore runs along the east coast through green jungles and along story-book beaches lined with coconut palms. The tropical monsoon climate of the country consists generally of a rainy season (southwest monsoon, May-October), a cool, dry season (northeast monsoon, October-February), and a hot, dry season (March-May).
Buddhas in Thailand
Perhaps more than any other country in the world, Thailand is the land of Buddha images. They range in size from tiny miniatures to huge giants. They are made of many different kinds of material — stone, plaster or terra cotta, wood, crystal or jade, silver or gold. But the most characteristic and important material is bronze.
For more than 1300 years the artists of Thailand have concentrated on making Buddha images, to such an extent that at the present time the images far outnumber the human population.
In such an enormous production, one would hardly expect all the examples to be worthy of the name “art,” and besides, the motives for making them were quite different from the motives of modern European artists.
From an old-fashioned Thai point of view, these images were made to be worshiped; from a modern point of view, they were merely “Reminders of the doctrine.” “Artistic” considerations are secondary. And the Buddhist image-maker has no desire to be original. When he shows originality, according to one authority, it is in spite of himself. He has always felt proud of being a faithful copyist. In theory, every image is
a copy, or a copy of a copy, or a copy of a copy of a copy, of one of the legendary portraits made during the Buddha’s lifetime by some artist who knew him personally. And in practice, nearly every image is a copy of some celebrated statue that was an object of veneration in the community.
In spite of this deliberate lack of originality, a fair number of Thai Buddha images are real masterpieces from any point of view. In Thailand, King Mongkut was the first to take an interest in Buddha images from the point of view of a connoisseur and historian. The private museum he started was in later generations expanded into the Bangkok National Museum whose collections are now among the richest in the Far East.
The earliest school of sculpture in Thailand is known by the name of “Dvaravati.” Its iconography was inspired chiefly by the post-Gupta art of India, as seen in the Ajanta caves. But in style it already showed some independence.
Complex influences went into Thai art. From the Cambodians, the Thai artists learned material skills and techniques; from the Cambodians too, they learned to love Sanskrit literature. From Ceylon they got a more precise understanding of Hinayana Buddhism. Monks were sent to Ceylon to study at the fountainhead of the Pali Doctrine, and they honored above all others the sect of Forest Dwellers which was led by monks who had been ordained in Ceylon.
The artists accepted the curious description of Buddha’s personal appearance as given in the Pali texts — the protuberance on top of the skull; the spiral curls and distended ear-lobes; the arms “long enough for him to touch his knees without stooping”; the flat footsoles and projecting heels. These things may sound absurd to a modern (and it is now known they are based on mistakes made by commentators and compilers of the Pali texts), hut the artists of that time saw in them a deep spiritual meaning.
In their creations of Buddhas the artists could not forget the stereotyped similes used by Sanskrit poetry to describe gods and heroes. So they made the head “the shape of an egg”; they made the eyebrows “like drawn bows” and the nose “like a parrot’s beak”; they made the chin “like a mango stone,” the shoulders massive “like an elephant’s head,” the arms tubular “like an elephant’s trunk,” and they made no display whatever of “bones, muscles, or veins.”
But the features of Buddha drawn from Pali and Sanskrit literature were, after all, marks and peculiarities that would have to be fitted onto a body. So, by mental concentration the artists visualized the image and gave it form with skill and poetic imagination. The expression is often spiritual, the hair is arranged in spiral curls, the eyebrows are arched, the nose aquiline, the face oval and chin pointed. The pedestals of seated images are generally plain and unornamented, the favorite material bronze, with plaster much used for reliefs.
The images of Buddha, the great masterpieces of the past, have never lost thei meaning to the Thai people. “They fulfill,”
WAT BENCHAMABAPIT—The Marble Temple is the temple of Phra Buddha Jinaraj, or Buddha, the Conqueror of Evil. In the foreground is a Buddhist monk, clad in his saffron-colored robe.