BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THAILAND	Page9
mese cats, Korat cats, white elephants; climate, monsoons; floating markets, i/2 million people live on Klong on teak sampans.
4.	Art: temples with spires and gabled roofs; mosaics; use of mother of pearl, black lacquer and gold leaf; Buddha statues, Wa Po, reclining Buddha; Wat Phra Keo, best known chapel of Emerald Buddha; influenced by Indian Ramayana legend; filigree work; National Museum, Buddhist and Cambodian sculpture; Wat Benjama Bohpit, excels in tempera painting.
5.	Music: Siamese dancers, gestures; fingers, arms, hands, wrists, rhyme with music; barefoot dancers; drums and xylophones; classical dances from Indian legends best entertainment, elaborate costumes, spiked headdresses.
6.	Mathematics: graphs showing distribution of population, exports and imports; trip by plane and trip by ship; money units, ticals, baht, satangs; 12 hours later than New York time.
7.	Health: sports, boxing begins with a prayer and is followed by music, fish fighting, “takraw,” old Siamese game, soccer, tennis, golf; Chinese food, Siamese rice, best in world; plakapon.
large fish, prawns.
B.	Skills: ability to locate material to an swer a definite question; to skim material and select pertinent facts; to distinguish between facts and fiction.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	A desire to learn more about a country which is becoming more and more important.
2.	An understanding of all that has been
contributed to the culture of the world.
3.	A sympathetic understanding of the problem's confronting this nation.
4.	A respect for its leaders and then-position in the world of today.
5.	An interest in the future of this country.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	Things to do:
1.	Gather as much recent information as possible from libraries and outside sources.
2.	Collect and mount pictures of Thailand.
3.	Write to someone who has visited Thailand.
4.	Plan a trip for someone interested in visiting this country.
5.	Use the visual aids suggested in this issue.
6.	Listen to records of Thai music and dancing. Try to interpret some of the music with gestures.
7.	Read some of the books listed in this issue.
8.	Prepare a quiz to try on other members of the class.
9.	Collect news items about Thailand.
B.	Culmination:
Since most people know so little about this country, a travelogue presented in the assembly or shared in some way with other classes would be of interest to everyone.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Newspapers
2.	Current magazine articles
3.	Travel folders
4.	Pictures
5.	Visual Aids
6.	Books
7.	Personnel
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
An interest in neighboring countries of Burma and Indo-China might be aroused after the study of Thailand.
WHAT HAVE WE LEARNED?
I.	General Questions:
1.	Most people live in what part of Thailand?
2.	Into how many regions is the country divided?
3.	Which city is called the “Venice of
Asia”?
4.	What are the most valuable natural resources of Thailand?
5.	What is the main occupation?
6.	What use is made of elephants in Thailand?
7.	For what arts and crafts is this country famous?
8.	What is the chief food crop?
9.	What is the main export?
10.	Bound the country of Thailand.
11.	Give some of the many names by which this country is known.
12.	What is the principal religion of the land?
13.	What two European nations have a territorial interest in Thailand?
14.	What position did Thailand take in World War I? World War II?
15.	What ore is shipped directly from Thailand to Texas?
16.	What wood comes from Thailand?
17.	Describe the climate.
18.	Name some fruits grown in this country.
19.	Name some minerals found here.
20.	Who may vote in Thailand?
21.	What is the capital?
22.	Describe the various kinds of homes founds in Thailand?
23.	What King of Thailand was born in the United States?
24.	What does the name Thailand mean?
25.	What was the former name of this country?
II.	MATCH:
Chiengmai Hua Hin Bangkok Ayudhya Chao Phya
III.	LOCATE:
Gulf of Siam Ayudhya Mekong River Chiengmai Malacca Straits Isthmus of Kra Burma
WAT PHRA KEO—The Chape! of the Emerald Buddha is within the palace walls, and its image of Buddha is made of jasper.
main river Venice of the East seaport
main northern city former capital
Indo-China
Malaya
China
Chao Phya River Hua Hin
Dawna Mountains Bangkok