Would Alrwaye Teacher
STUDY UNIT
Page 8
ing. Betel-nut chewing is a habit common to all women at banquets, often taking the place of dessert.
The attitude of the United States toward Thailand is important. It is closely watched by other Far Eastern countries as indicative of our attitude toward the small nations of that area. It is extremely important to our country to have, a friend in this troubled area of the world. The Thai people want to live their lives as they wish, free of any type of domination. The United States has always understood such an attitude and sympathized with it. Our aim in Thai relations has been to strengthen commercial ties, respect political beliefs and do all possible to promote mutual understanding.
THAILAND
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
Notes to Teachers:
1.	Most information on this country will be obtained from recent periodicals.
2.	In most encyclopedias and reference catalogues information will be found under Siam.)
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Thailand called
“Land of the Free?”
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	Names in the news. Thailand and the surrounding countries have become important in the news of the day.
2.	The show, picture and book: “Anna and the King of Siam” or “The King and I” have stirred interest in this country.
3.	Travel by air makes it possible to become better acquainted with the history and culture of Thailand.
4.	Students have heard of Siamese dancers, Siamese cats and Siamese twins. We ought to know more about the land from which they come.
5.	We have a natural interest in lands which fight to become free and stay free.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Talk about the movie and the play, “The King and I,” for many students have seen either or both.
2.	A child in the class may have a Siamese cat as a pet.
3.	A current news item may start an interesting discussion.
4.	A report on one of the books listed in the Bibliography may lead to a desire for more information.
5.	Showing a visual aid listed in this issue will help to get the class interested.
B.	Subsidiary problems:
1.	Why is this country called “Exotic Thailand?”
2.	What has Thailand contributed to the modern world?
3.	Why are we interested in the posi-
tion which Thailand takes in current world problems?
4.	Why is the geographical position of Thailand important to her and to the rest of the world?
5.	What changes have been brought by air travel within the country and in her relationships with other countries?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject matter:
1. Social Studies: Former name Siam; Thai, name of Siamese race; people called Thais; capital, Bangkok, is Southeast Asia’s third largest city; bounded by Burma, Indo-China, Malaya and China; Constitutional Monarchy, House of Representatives and House of Elders; city of Chiengmai, second largest; Hua Hin, seaport; Ayuthia (Ayudhya), former capital; part of Indo-Chinese peninsula; Me-nam Chao Phya and Mekong Rivers; palm thatched huts; Klongs or canals; sampan ferries; most people follow Buddhist religion; beautiful temples and Buddha statues; use of elephants, the white elephant is sacred; oxen and buffaloes; natural irrigation system; Isthmus of Kra; every male Siamese spends short time as “bonze,” a Buddhist monk; tin, rubber, teak; 72 hours from New York by plane; textiles and porcelains; rubies, sapphires, zircons and antique jewelry; hand woven silks and brocades; neilloware — oxidized silver, engraved with inlaid black enamel; Dawna and Bilauktaung Mountains; good harbors; first Sia-
mese twins, Eng and Chang, 1811; 1/2 of population can read and write; five universities, all in Bangkok; travel by trishaw, three wheeled rickshaw; royal palace, walled town; Premier, real political leader.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue will be helpful. Language is monosyllabic containing 44 consonants, 15 vowels and four kinds of musical intonations. Writing is done with pens from left to right, “mai pen rai”— it doesn’t matter.
b.	Literature: Siamese plays; drama from India Ramayana legend; books listed in bibliography.
c.	Oral communications: Reporting on the picture “The King and I”; planning a trip to Thailand and selecting places of interest to visit; interviewing someone who has visited Thailand; checking answers to questions; sharing a story recently read; discussing current events.
d.	Written communication: describing a visit to Bangkok, the city of 400 temples; writing for more information; inviting someone to speak to the class; reviewing a book; reporting to the class.
3.	Science: plant life, yellow blossoms on the water; flame tree, 18 varieties of bananas; animal life, gekos (lizards), tigers, Asiatic deer, bears, boars, rhinoceroses, gibbons and tapirs, porcupines, leopards, sladong (wild cattle), wild dogs, peacocks, parrots, myna (talking) birds, "“Sia-
WAT PHRA KEO—This is the rear exit of the Chape! of the Emerald Buddha, guarded by two demons who are characters in the epic story of Ramayana.