BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
WEST INDIES
colleges of the area—the Government Train-College of Trinidad, Erdiston College of ^^Hrbados and the Mico Training College of ^^amaica — are doing fine work in improving educational standards and meeting the demand for a greater supply of trained teachers.
Many libraries have sprung up since the war. An important educational development in The West Indies came in 1948 with the establishment of the University College of The West Indies, at Mona, St Andrew in Jamaica. The University has simple airy buildings. There are over 500 students in residence. For the time being, the undergraduates work for degrees of University of London and several graduates have also taken post-graduate degrees from the College. The University has begun to make significant contributions in research not only in the fields of medicine but in education and social science.
The Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture, at St. Augustine, Trinidad, was founded in 1921. Its courses in agriculture and sugar technology are provided primarily for West Indies students.
Today, the people of The West Indies are accepting the view that the purpose of education is to create individuals with learning and vision who are willing to make a maximum effort to construct a better society in the islands of their birth.
The idea of a West Indian political federation, had been discussed for many years, both in the United Kingdom and in the West Indies. Only since the end of the Second World War, however, did it begin to emerge firmly upon the scene.
A major influence was the rapid development of air transportation. Islands knowing little about one another’s ways of life due to almost complete isolation found themselves only a few hours or minutes apart by air.
Other influences on ultimate political federation were the regional cooperative projects which became realities since the Nineteen Twenties. These projects proved to the West Indian people the advantages to be gained by mutual action against common problems. Thus in a sense, economic and social cooperation set the stage for political Federation.
In 1924 the Imperial College of Tropical Agriculture was founded in Trinidad where research work to meet the needs of all the West Indies was carried out. In 1932 a Central Sugar Cane Breeding Station was established in Barbados to serve all the sugargrowing territories. In 1940 a West Indies
«cvelopment and Welfare Organization was jablished, it is chiefly concerned with the onomic and social problems of the area in general and the promotion of regional cooperation and coordination. In 1948 the University College of the West Indies was founded in Jamaica. It serves and is supported by all the British Caribbean territories.
Making History
By federating, the West Indies have obtained increased internal autonomy, and slowly they will fulfill their national aspirations. The Federation wants to have a new capital city, and has asked specifically for the promontory of Chaguarames, near Port of Spain, and now an important United States naval air base and a link in the anti-submarine defense of the Caribbean. This base was given to United States on a 99-year lease by the administration of Prime Minister Winston Churchill, partly in exchange for destroyers delivered to Britain before the United States entered the war. A squadron of hydroplanes is stationed there. The Americans have offered their air base Waller Field, in the center of the island, as an alternative for Trinidad as the site of the new capital. There is no doubt that a happy solution will be found.
The Caribbean islands have been described in the most glowing terms. No matter where you look there is ocean around you — crystal-clear waters and waves that roll gently onto the seashore. Balmy sunshine — away from ice and snow. Flowers with riotous color, dazzling white roofs of pastel-tinted houses against the sparkling sea and sky — and the people, so friendly, considerate and courteous. This is a Federation made possible by the “advent of The Air Age.”
In 1950 and 1951 reports were published by Commissions on the Unification of the Public Services in the British Caribbean Area and the Establishment of a Customs Union in the Area.
In 1951 the first meeting of the British West Indies Regional Economic Committee was held. This Committee is a consultative and advisory body on economic matters of common interest and consists of one member appointed by each participating Government and the Comptroller for Development and Welfare. In the same year a common currency was introduced for Eastern Caribbean territories including British Guiana.
In 1954 a British Caribbean Air Transport Advisory Council was inaugurated with a Standing Technical Committee of civil aviation officials from the Area. In 1955 the British Caribbean Inter-Island Shipping Service was inaugurated, and a British Caribbean Conference of financial officers was held in Jamaica to discuss the creation of a Regional Stock Exchange.
On January 3, 1958 the colonies were formally federated under the name of The Federation of the West Indies. (See article in this unit entitled “Government.”)
JAMAICA
Jamaica, largest and most westerly island, lies about ninety miles south of Cuba. With a total area of 4,411 square miles, it is 148 miles long and has an extreme width of fifty-two miles. The Cayman Islands and Turks and Caicos Islands with a combined
area of 269 square miles and 14,726 people, are dependencies of Jamaica, which itself has a population of 1,610,573. There are roughly seventeen centers of population, the largest, the Capital City of Kingston along with Port Royal and the Parish of St. Andrew, has 354,726 people. Nearly all of the Island’s imports go through the land-locked harbor serving Kingston. Other ports are used mainly for the export of a particular commodity. For example, bauxite is handled at Port Esquivel, Port Kaiser and Ocho Rios; bananas go through the port of Lucea; sugar through Black River, Savanna-la-Mar, Falmouth and St. Ann’s Bay; and sugar and bananas through Montego Bay and Port Antonio.
Jamaica is mountainous, the main range runs eaist to west. Numerous subsidiary ranges, run parallel to the main range or spread out in a northwesterly and southeasterly direction. The highest point, Blue Mountain Peak is 1,402 feet above sea level. There are numerous rivers and streams with rapid falls, making them navigable. From mid-December to mid-April the climate is just about perfect with sunshine every day, cool nights and no rain. Even from June to October constant trade winds keep Jamaica cooler than any resort along the U.S. seaboard.
Agriculture is the basis of economic life. It provides a livelihood for most of the population and produces most of the local food supplies, either directly or by way of the manufacturing and processing sectors of the economy. During the Second World War, sugar replaced bananas as Jamaica’s principal export, accounting for over 28 percent of total overseas sales. A little over 60 percent of the Island’s sugar cane is grown on estates, the balance is produced by farmers who sell to estate factories at prices determined by a mutually agreed upon formula. Estate acreage under cane is about 61,000, while the cane farmers’ acreage is about 78,000. Bananas are grown in all districts, on estates and small holdings. About 100,000 acres are registered with the All-Island Banana Growers’ Association. In the years before the Second World War bananas were Jamaica’s most important product, accounting for over half of domestic exports. However during the War, production fell due to disease and to the war-time restriction of exports. The banana is a quick growing plant and the first bunches may be cut about a year after planting. Fruit is harvested all the year round, so there are no seasonal peaks or valleys as is the case with sugar. For example, the sugar estage labor force almost doubles in season as against off-season.
Citrus fruits, mainly sweet oranges and grapefruit, are grown chiefly on small holdings. Some fresh fruit is exported, but since the War the processing industry has greatly expanded and now most of the crojr is exported in the form of juices, grapefruit sections and other by-products. The production of coffee, which has been grown in Jamaica since the early eighteenth century, declined during the War but has been expanding since. In the past cocoa has been grown as a minor crop on small holdings but the rise in world prices after the War led to
0INDUSTRY, TRADE AND AGRICULTURE
By Lou A. Phillips