BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
WEST INDIES
Page 7
cotton. There are livestock stud centers and
•i central dairying and stock-breeding station. Pn 1 y forty-six acres of original forest, pre-erved by statute, remain. Fire wood is imported.
The most important industrial activity is the manufacture of sugar. Rum, its bv-procl-uct, is manufactured in three distilleries, and vacuum pan molasses and syrup are also produced. Industrial development is being encouraged through tax and other concessions to new undertakings and there is now a wide variety of manufacturing such as bricks and tiles, charcoal, furniture, cement, cigarettes, biscuits, confectionery, boots, shoes, soap and glass. There is a petroleum refinery, two foundries and a company engaged in freezing flving fish mostly for export. Two peasant industries continue to exist, — the recently rehabilitated fishing industry employing 2,500 people, and the clav industry. A few minor crafts are practiced such as basket-making, turtle shell work, net-making, brush making and sea shell work. In 1956 workshops were set up by the Government to improve designs and standards in basketry and turtle shell work.
Antigua with its dependencies of Barbuda and Redonda, St. Christopher-Nevis-Anguil-la, Montserrat and the British Virgin Islands make up a group called the Leeward Islands. With a total land area of 423 square miles, they lie roughly midway in the arc of islands stretching from Jamaica to Trinidad.
•Dominica, Grenada, St. Lucia and St. Vincent |nake up a group called the Windward islands, lying in the southern part of the arc between the Leewards and Trinidad. Besides the four main islands they include a group of small islands known as the Grenadines, some of which are dependencies of Grenada and some of St. Vincent.
Antigua, Barbuda and Redonda have a total population of .55,967 and a combined area of about 171 square miles. Their capital, and only port of entry, is St. Johns with 11,000 people, situated on a gentle slope at
TRINIDAD — The dance patterns of Trinidad are drawn in part from India — often with Calypso music.
the head of a picturesque land-locked harbor. A little more than 18,000 acres of land are under cultivation of which 12,000 are under sugar cane and 4,000 devoted to cotton. Over 70 percent of Antigua’s exports consists of sugar and sugar products, and over 90 percent of the population is directly or indirectly dependent on the sugar industry. There has been some development in handicrafts for sale locally and to tourists. There is a sugar mill, a rum distillery, a cotton ginnery, an arrowroot factory and a cornmeal factory. There is also an edible oil factory, established by the Industrial Development Board, producing oil from cotton seed, and which is equipped to extract and refine oil from copra.
The island of St. Christopher, more commonly known as St. Kitts, is 68 square miles in size and has a population of 55,335. Its central portion is mountainous with the highest point, Mt. Misery, 3,711 feet above sett level. On the southwest side of the island between the mountains and the sea but nearer the coast is Brimstone Hill, 7.50 feet high. Basseterre, its Capital, is a busy port as St. Kitts is a distribution point for merchandise to nearby British Islands as well as the Dutch St. Eustatius and Saba and the partly Dutch — partly French St. Martin. Nevis was colonized by English from St. Kitts and is 50 square miles in area. Its climate is very similar to St. Kitts from which it is separated by a two mile strait. Anguilla is 34 square miles and 60 miles northwest of St. Kitts.
The chief agricultural products of St. Kitts are sugar cane and sea island cotton. Ground provisions (yams, potatoes, cassava, etc.) are grown to a limited extent for domestic consumption. In Nevis the cultivation of sea island cotton is the chief industry but some sugar is still grown most of which is shipped to St. Kitts. Basseterre has a sugar factory which grinds and processes all cane grown. It also has a cornmeal factory and an establishment for ginning and baling seed cotton.
Twenty-seven miles from Antigua is the Island of Montserrat. About 11 miles in length and seven miles wide at its broadest parts, it has a total area of 32i/2 square miles. It is of volcanic origin, very rugged and mountainous. Chance Mt., the highest elevation is 3,000 feet above sea level, and hills are covered with forests. Its population is 14,436 of which 2,500 live in Plymouth, the Capital, and only port of entry. There are about 5,500 acres of cultivable land, 3,900 acres of arable land, 2,200 acres in pasture and 5,000 acres under forest. The cultivable land consists of 1,500 farms and 3,000 ¡dots. Cultivation is carried on by estate management, by small owners and by farmers renting small plots. The sharecropping system of tenure still remains on certain cotton estates but is on its way out. The main crops are cotton and sugar with tomatoes, carrots, limes, pumpkins, shallots, peas, peanuts, cabbage and maize grown in varying amounts. Soil is light and subject to severe erosion due to the hilly nature and cultivable lands. A liftv percent subsidy is paid to peasants introducing soil conservation measures on their holdings in an effort to check erosion. There
are four cotton ginneries. All sugar cane goes into rum production and there is one private distillery. Blackburne Airfield on the Island’s east coast was opened officially in 1956.
Dominica, named for its discovery by Christopher Columbus on a Sunday, is 29 miles long and 16 miles wide with a total area of 305 square miles. Lying between the French Islands of Guadaloupe and Martinique, it is perhaps the most ruggedly beautiful of all the West Indies. Its inaccessible mountain territory resulted in the Island’s being the last to be developed. Mt. Diablotin, the highest peak is 4,747 feet above sea level. Total population is 64,008 of which 13,500 live in Roseau, the Capital. The only other town is Portsmouth with 2,000 people. Chief products are limes, grapefruit and oranges, vanilla, bananas, copra and cocoa. Industries include the distilling of rum for local markets, distilling of lime oil, tobacco manufacturing and cottage industries. Seaplane service with St. Vincent has Soufriere as its terminal point with passengers connecting by a fast Government launch for Roseau. An airport is to be constructed on the northeastern part of the Island.
Grenada, mountainous and very pictur-esque, and 21 miles long and 12 miles at its greatest width, is the most southerly island in the windward group. It is 68 miles south southwest from St. Vincent and 90 miles north of Trinidad. The mountains are chiefly volcanic and have several lofty peaks, the highest being St. Catherine, 2,749 feet above«; sea level. The Island abounds in streams and in mineral springs. Total population is 89,068 with 20,832 in St. Georges, the chief-town and port of entry. Carriacou in the Grenadines and those islands adjacent and south of it are dependencies of Grenada. Carriacou, twenty miles north of Grenada is 8,467 acres in size and is largely devoted to the cultivation of cotton although limes are also grown. Its population total 7,225.
A feature of Grenadan agriculture is the large number of small holdings devoted to
TRINIDAD — A mosque, and its keeper, in Port of Spain. About a third of the 400,000 people on Trinidad are East Indians.