BY HYING CLIPPER TO
WEST INDIES	Page 9
ing free internal trade. A Governor-General
•Lhe Queen’s representative and the seat of »vernment is Trinidad. There is a two-amber legislature, consisting of a Senate of nineteen members appointed by the Governor-General (two representatives from each territory except Montserrat which has one), and a House of Representatives of forty-five elected members (seventeen from Jamaica, ten from Trinidad, five from Barbados, one from Montserrat and two from each of the other territories). No member of either Chamber may serve at the same time on either the Legislative or the Executive Council of any of the territories.
At its first meeting the Senate elects two Senators to be President and Vice-President respectively. The House of Representatives, at its first meeting, elects a Speaker, who may be from inside or outside the House, and a Deputy Speaker, who must be a Member. The President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House may exercise a casting vote only. Both Chambers will normally have a life of five years, although the House of Representatives may be dissolved earlier. Subjects for legislation are set out in an exclusive list and a concurrent list published as a schedule to the Constitution. The federal legislature has the power to legislate
with respect to any matter in either list, federal laws prevailing in the event of inconsistency with the laws of a territory. Territorial legislatures legislate on subjects in the concurrent list and on matters not contained in either list.
The Prime Minister is elected by the House of Representatives. He advises the Governor-General on the appointment of ten Ministers of the Government. These eleven Ministers constitute the Council of State, which is presided over by the Governor-General. This is the policy making body of the Federation. To carry out the decisions of the Government, a Federal Civil Service has been established and a number of specialist advisers have been appointed to guide the region during formative years. Federal revenue will be derived mainly from a mandatory levy on a percentage basis, on territorial Governments, subject to a maximum ceiling on the total amount to be collected in any one year. Jamaica will pay roughly 43 percent; Trinidad 39 percent; and Barbados 9 percent; with the rest ranging from 1.74 percent for St. Lucia to 0.27 percent for Montserrat. These percentage allocations are based on economic, social and political development so far attained in respective territories.
THE WEST INDIES FEDERATION
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
PROBLEM: What is the West Indies
Federation?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	The federation is newly organized and students should become familiar with the islands involved.
2.	The reasons behind the formation of the federation have a relation to world politics and economics.
3.	Many of the islands involved are well known. However, some are most unfamiliar to the students.
4.	Tourism is becoming increasingly important on these islands.
5.	The airplane has brought these islands much closer to our homes and has
B. Subsidiary problems:
1.	Why did the people of these islands decide that a federation was necessary and good?
2.	How have these islands contributed to the culture of the world?
3.	For what industries and products are these islands noted?
4.	How has the airplane affected the islands in the federation?
IV. EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject matter:
1. Social studies: names and locations of the islands in the federation; founded April 1958; Governor-General; senate,
two from each territory; 45 members in the House of Representatives; inauguration attended by Princess Margaret; Prime Minister elected by House.
a.	ST. LUCIA — largest Windward Island; capital, Castries; Sonfriere, a town; Gros Piton and Petit Piton, two peaks; one of Lesser Antilles; straw products.
b.	BARBADOS — most eastern of Windward Islands; capital, Bridgetown; noted for pottery; sometimes called “Little England”; George Washington visited here; Codring-ton College, oldest university standing in British Colonies.
c.	GRENADA — most southerly of Windward Islands; spice island, cocoa, nutmeg, clove; Grand Etang, volcanic lake; capital, St. George’s; Lake Antoine and Lake Levere; Richmond Hill, old French arsenal, now a prison; Sauterurs, town; spices, nutmeg and clove.
d.	TRINIDAD — most colorful and polyglot; capital and chief town, Port of Spain; home of Angostura bitters; pitch lake (asphalt) 285 feet deep; Maraces Bay, Maracas Valley, waterfall; teak forests, bamboo groves; Gulf of Para and San Fernando; large sugar factory; tonka beans, lime oil; Columbus 1498; Sir Walter Raleigh, 1595; U.S. seaplane and naval base in World ■ War II; called Iere, “Land of Humming Bird,” by Columbus.
e.	TOBAGO - Man O’ War Bay; Pigeon Point; Ingram Island; cacao, coconut, rubber; Columbus, 1498; changed hands more often than any other island; capital, Scarborough; cashew nuts.
f.	JAMAICA — largest of British islands in West Indies; capital, Kingston; Montego Bay, largest in West Indies, called “Fair Weather Bay”; Port Antonio, Old Harbour Bay; Mandeville, Newcastle; St. Ann’s Bay; rum, ginger; Arawaks; Admiral William Penn, General Venables, 1655; center of slave
made many changes on the islands.
6. It is always interesting to learn about people who desire freedom and self-government.
II. PROBABLE DURATION: Three weeks.
t
III. LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	Use recent news clippings and magazine articles about the formation of the new federation.
2.	Use the map and globe to locate the islands in the federation and to talk about those with which the students are already familiar.
3.	Discuss books listed in the bibliography to create an interest.
4.	Show some of the movies listed in this issue to give the class a background of information.
5.	Use personal experience of teachers, parents and pupils who have visited some of these islands.
ANTIGUA — The tourists standing on Shirley Hill are looking toward the dockyard at English Harbor where Nelson, Rodney and Hood were stationed in the Royal West Indian Squadron while pursuing the French and Spanish fleets.