Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
increased activity in the field. The production of livestock is an important branch of Jamaican agriculture, not only for its importance in the diet of the people but for its contribution to soil fertility. A milk condens-ery was set up in 1940 and has given impetus to the expansion of the industry. Each year, about 45,000 cattle are slaughtered, and about 10,000,000 quarts of milk are delivered to the condensery supplying practically all of the Island’s requirements.
Other agricultural commodities grown include pimento (allspice) of which Jamaica is almost the sole supplier, tobacco, ginger, rice, maize, coconuts and a large variety of fruits and vegetables. The Government has been exploiting all local sources of fish to improve the people’s nutrition and reduce dependence on imported supplies amounting to about 1.5 million pounds a year. Forest reserves cover eight percent of the total land area and are used for protection of water supplies, prevention of flooding, checking of soil erosion and ruin of agricultural land in foothills, and the preservation of scenic beauty.
Recently, mining has become a major Island industry. Since production began in 1952, Jamaica has become the world’s largest producer of bauxite, also processed locally into alumina. As the bauxite is exported to the U.S. and the alumina chiefly to Canada, the two commodities are important dollar earners. Bauxite reserves are estimated at between 500 and 600 million tons. High quality gypsum is also exploited and other minerals and rocks, such as limestone and clays are used as building materials and for cement manufacture. Prospecting for iron, copper, lead, zinc and other minerals has been undertaken but the search for oil has been abandoned after intensive prospecting.
For many years secondary industry in Ja-
maica was concentrated on the processing of agricultural products such as sugar, citrus, edible oils and tobacco. A number of minor industries have also existed, mainly producing such consumer goods as beer, mineral water, matches, clothing, shoes, bricks and furniture. The Second World War stimulated such production, and the Government, through incentive plans, has taken steps to encourage new “pioneer” industries to provide additional employment to a constantly increasing population. Thus a diversity of light industries has been established. New York and London offices have also been opened by the Government aimed at attracting overseas investment in Jamaica.
Due to its climate, scenic beauty and excellent beaches, Jamaica has become a center of a sizable and expanding tourist industry, attracting thousands of visitors annually (the majority coming from the U.S. and Can-ada). The industry is third after bauxite and alumina, sugar and rum, in terms of overseas earnings; and is second only to bauxite and alumina as a dollar earner. Tourism also gives employment to many skilled and unskilled workers. Hotels alone provide work directly or indirectly to 26,000 people. Haiti’s two international airports are being improved: Palisadoes is being expanded to handle the largest commercial aircraft, and a new terminal building is going up at the Montego Bay Airport.
Trinidad, 50 miles long and 37 miles wide, with an area of 1,864 square miles, is the second largest and the most southerly of the islands. Geologically it is a part of South America from which it is separated by the shallow Gulf of Paria, and its flora and fauna are similar to those of the Orinoco Region on the Continent. Tobago, 26 miles long and 7i/2 miles at its greatest width lies twenyt-one miles to the northeast of Trini-
lllpl
JAMAICA — Af the International hotels on the "Gold Coast" such as the Montego Beach and Sunset Lodge, native dancers entertain on the beach. This number is called
the "Fire Dance."
oth
s
i
9
dad. The combined population of both Islands totals 763,420. Port of Spain, Capital and deep-water port, has a popu tion of 120,000. Other chief towns on Trin dad are San Fernando with 37,800 people and Arima with 11,500. The main town on Tobago is Scarborough, formerly called Port Louis, situated at the base of a hill near the shore of Rockley Bay. Trinidad is a focal point of Caribbean air traffic which flows through Piarco Airport 16 miles southeast of Port of Spain.
Crude oil, the only mineral of economic importance to the Island, is the main pillar of its economy. Thirty-six percent of all revenue is contributed by the oil industry. Exploration licenses for geological and geophysical surveying over Crown lands are issued for two years at small rentals. They carry the right to convert any part of the licenses into a mining lease. Mining leases, issued for thirty year periods, carry a royalty of ten percent of the value of oil produced. There is no drilling obligation but nonproductive leases pay a minimum royalty on an annually increasing scale. Over 420,000 acres of Crown oil rights are held under mining lease. Offshore oil is produced and submarine oil mining licenses covering more than one million acres have been issued. All local production plus 1,600,000 barrels a month of imported crude oil is refined in the Colony. Trinidad is the third largest producer of petroleum oils in the British Empire. In the southwest corner of the Island lies the famous 109 acre Pitch Lake. It cq sists of natural asphalt, worked for expc! and for roads in the territory. Trinidad is the world’s chief supplier of natural asphalt.
The chief agricultural products of the Island are sugar and its by-products molasses and rum; cocoa, coconuts and coconut products (copra); citrus and by-products; and coffee. Attention is now being given to developing a banana industry. Cocoa crops are not processed to any significant extent, but sugar cane is converted into raw sugar for export and an important rum industry is based on the use of molasses. The citrus industry yields fresh grapefruit and oranges and canned citrus juices for home and export markets. The coconut industry provides edible oils and fats and laundry soaps of high quality, some of which are exported to adjacent countries.
Barbados is the most easterly of the islands. Is 21 miles long by 14 miles at its widest part. It is hilly but not mountainous. Land rises in terraces to a ridge near the center culminating in Mount Hillahy (1,104 feet). In the northeast the hills run nearer to the seacoast with a steeper descent and more rugged and picturesque scenery. The total population is about 232,227 with Bridgetown, the Capital and chief port, accounting for about 18,650. That of Speightstown, the only other town is about 2,600. Air service through Seawell Airport.
Barbados’ fertile soil is closely cultivate Of the total area of 106,470 acres, 94,346 are agricultural, either arable or pasture. Estates over ten acres account for 77,063 acres and peasant holdings for 17,283 acres. Sugar cane planted on 47,158 acres is the principal crop. There are from 12,000 to 33,000 acres under
%