Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
architecture, dress and cooking, different attitudes toward marriage and property, different methods of work and worship, have resulted in a new distinctive pattern, difficult to describe in a word, but recognizable in the innumerable details which sharply define it from any other culture — cricket on the beaches, roti in the streets, funeral processions, the volume of laughter, the religious atmosphere of political meetings, the fundamental optimism and the quick reaction to kindness or injury — all these are signs of a new society in evolution, discovering roots and a sense of community within a legal system that upholds the rights of each individual.
The final stage was the Federation. The Government of The West Indies has all the classic features of a federal government. There is a delegation of certain specified powers to a central authority, a retention of powers by the territorial governments and an area of joint legislation with federal law prevailing where there is a discrepancy.
The legislative power of the Federation itself is vested in a Federal Legislature consisting of the Crown, a Senate and a House of Representatives. The Crown is represented by the Governor-General. In the Senate there are two Senators for each territory — Montserrat has only one. The House of Representatives is fully elected on an adult franchise. It has forty-five members. The Prime Minister is elected by the House and he advises the Governor on the appointment of the ten Ministers of the Government. These eleven Ministers constitute the Council of State, which is presided over by the Governor General. This is the policy making body of the Federation.
Nineteen fifty-eight is a significant year for the people of The West Indies. A new flag
was unfurled and the people who live under it will be making their own history.
THE FEDERATION OF THE WEST INDIES
Island	Population	Capital
Antigua Barbuda and Redonda 54,230		St. John’s
Barbados	229,577	Bridgetown
Dominica	64,415	Roseau
Grenada	88,215	St.George’s
Jamaica	1,579,620	
Turks and Caicos	6,500	Kingston
Cayman Islands	9,045	
Montserrat	14,321	Plymouth
St. Kitts Nevis	55,335	Basseterre
Anguilla St. Lucia	89,842	Castries
St. Vincent	76,800	Kingstown
Trinidad	708,050	
Tobago	34,450	Port of Spain
Total	3,010,400	
The Federation has 8,028.8 square		miles and a
population of 3,000,000 approximately.
Jamaica the Green
Jamaica is the largest of the British West Indies in size and in population. It is as peaceful and delightful today as it was gusty and lusty in the old Port Royal days of the buccaneers when that settlement had earned for itself the title of the wickedest city in the new world.
Columbus discovered Jamaica on his second voyage in 1494. Nine years later on another voyage he was stranded there. He fastened his two sea-scarred ships together on the beach, built a roof over them, and sat down and waited a full year for rescue, using a knowledge of the date of an eclipse of the moon to gain control over the hostile but superstitious Indians. In spite of what one reads of his trials and tribulations during
JAMAICA — This photograph shows a typical dance, by entertainers at Montego Bay. Along with the dancing goes Calypso singing, in which stories are told to music, sometimes
improvised on the spot.
im.
ì o~
that year, it is hard to feel too sorry for him.
Jamaica with its 148 by 52 miles lush, verdant vegetation, towering mount; ranges, and white-sanded coast line is one the loveliest islands of the Caribbean and one of the most satisfying for any type of holiday one may desire. A few minutes after your arrival you can be lying in one of the most celebrated beaches in the world, or swimming in purple-blue-green water so clear that you can distinguish the individual grains of sand on the sandy bottom, or else starting out in a pert little white sailboat with sails billowing in the trade winds.
Kingston is the major city. It is the point of departure for the many resorts of the island — Montego Bay, Port Royal, Mandeville, Newcastle and others.
Trinidad — Center of the Federation
Proudly over Trinidad flies a new flag, with the West Indies coat-of-arms in a white circle on its blue ground. Port of Spain is a very interesting city. Fascinating is the polyglot population one sees on the streets — Hindus, Moslems, Chinese, Portuguese, French, Spanish, British, and it is equally fascinating to see on this side of the globe the temples and bazaars and workshops of those people. The beaches on the northern and eastern shores of the island are magnificent.
Trinidad is about fifty miles long by thirty-seven miles wide. It is one more of the many islands discovered by Columbus on his voyage in 1498. The island was called Iere b^^ the Carib Indians whom he found here; ti^| word means “Land of the Humming BircMHf Trinidad claims the distinction of having originated the Calypso.
Steel bands are heard throughout the Caribbean islands. Groups of players form bands with names as fantastic as those of the calypso singers. The instruments are steel oil drums, called “pans.” They are beaten with sticks with rubber tips producing incredibly soft and entrancing music. The making of these pans so that they can produce a range of from nineteen to thirty-two notes is an art in itself, as is the tuning of them.
The nearby Tobago Island is one of those unusual spots hard to describe with words.
Its clean white expanses of beach, the clear brilliantly colored water of its protected bays with their coral reefs, and the water of the surrounding open seas are the island’s greatest assets. Every possible tropical tree is scattered throughout its twenty-six by seven and one-half miles — the banyan tree, the immortelle tree which gives shade to the cacao; the calabash whose fruits grows in clusters; the balata tree; the cassava, from the root of which starch is made; the breadfruit tree with its smooth green elongated ball; the tulip tree; the cashew nut—the list is endless.
Three “R”s
Education in the West Indies advanco^^ slowly but surely. In many of the islands, t schools are crowded; and it is not unusual t^P find three or four hundred children in one building without separate rooms. During the dry season classes are often conducted in the shade of a mango tree. But new schools are under construction. The shortage of teachers is being met with good results. The training