Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Pan American, which now serves all six continents, and has a network of over 65,000 route miles, was born right here in the Caribbean area when, in October, 1927, its first flight was made from Key West, Florida to Havana, Cuba, a distance of ninety miles. Since that time, untold thousands of vacationers have enjoyed the magic carpet service of Pan Am’s Clippers.
Our flight to the West Indies may begin either at New York or Miami. A typical flight could be PAA 271, leaving New York’s Idlewilcl International Airport at 2215 (10:15 P.M.) and arriving in San Juan at 0500. With the advent of Jet Clipper service, this time will be reduced to approximately three hours. Flight 271 offers a choice of first class or tourist class service.
Flight 271 continues on to St. Croix, Antigua, Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, Fort-de-France, Martinique, Barbados and l’ort-of-Spain, Trinidad.
Or, you may fly from New York to Kingston, Jamaica via Ciudad Trujillo in the Dominican Republic, and then on to San Juan. From Miami, there are daily flights to Kingston and San Juan.
From any of the island stops made by Pan Am, vou may continue “island hopping” to the smaller islands of the West Indies by British West Indian Airways connecting flights. There are small motor-vessels serving these islands, also.
First step then, is to see your travel agent, or visit the nearest Pan American office for help in mapping out your itinerary.
No passports are required, if you are a United States citizen, for visiting member nations of the West Indies Federation. Proof of nationality for visitors from the United States who are remaining for less than six months, and hold return tickets is all that is necessary.
There is one exception, however. Barbados
requires proof of identity and, while a birth certificate is not accepted as proof of identij^ in Barbados, it may be used as proof cH returning to the United States. The ofliciar recommendation of proof of identity in Barbados is a passport, but bona fide visitors returning within six months will encounter little difficulty in satisfying the immigration officials.
No visas are necessary for any of these places, but visitors to Jamaica get a special tourist card on arrival; cost §1.40. This card must be returned to the Immigration authorities on departure.
A smallpox vaccination certificate is needed for your return to the United States. This certificate should state that the last vaccina-ion took place within a three year period prior to the end of your tour.
The climate in the area is generally delightful in summer and in winter. There’s no need to fear excessive heat in the midsummer months and, although the “high season” is generally considered to be from mid-December to mid-April—sunshine every day and cool nights — the summer season, June to October, has recently been discovered by United States tourists. The result: it almost equals the winter season in popularity. The constant trade winds keep the islands far cooler than most resorts on the United States eastern seaboard.
You can see, from the above, that when you pack, you may leave your heavy clothes at home. You are allowed free baggage oL 66 pounds first class and 44 pounds tour* class, plenty to take along your light summcl clothes. Light summer clothes, light suits for men and women, possibly formal for evening wear, and several swim suits and lots of beach attire are appropriate.
The West Indies Federation currency is the British West Indian dollar, valued at 4 shillings and 2 pence (British currency) or about 60 cents United States currency. It is advisable to convert as needed into West Indian currency or English silver, but most hotels and large business houses will accept United States currency and traveler’s checks. Jamaica is an exception. There, the British pound, half crown, florin, shilling and pence are used. Fite Found is worth about $2.80 U.S.
Purchases up to $500 are exempt from duty if they are for your personal use, you declare them properly on your arrival in the United States, your trip wasn’t made for the sole purpose of buying them, and you didn’t order them ahead of time.
And, most important when you do a lot of island-hopping, to make your packing and unpacking easier, to save you space and eliminate excess luggage, you can ship any gifts under $10 value back to the United States duty-free, and they won’t be counted against your duty-free allowance. Be sure to mark your package “gift” or use special stickers available at the Pan Am office, m
Of course, before you board your GlippenJ make sure that you’ve studied the customs and history of the West Indies. The information on the following pages, and list of suggested reading, should help you to enjoy the warm hospitality and culture of the islands.