Page T-2
PAN AMERICAN
Published as a service to teachers
by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1959, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Memo:
To Librarians and others who file World Airways Teacher.
Yes, the Volume and Number notations did get off the beam.
October, 1958, should be Vol. XV No. 1 December, 1958 should be Vol. XV, No. 2. March, 1959 was correctly indicated as Vol. XV, No. 3 and the current issue, Vol. XV. No. 4 will be the final issue of this school term. Next issue, in the fall, will be Vol. XVI, No. 1.
SUMMER WORKSHOPS
('Continued from page T-l)
Consent of Director of Workshop. The National Aviation Education Workshop is a non-technical course open to elementary and secondary teachers, administrators, and Civil Air Patrol personnel. The workshop experiences will be functional with instruction and laboratory experiences centered around the social, political, and international aspects of aviation as well as an introduction to areo-dynamics, meteorology, and astronautics. Emphasis will be placed upon teaching methods applicable to subject matter or class assignments of participants. Aerospace-Age teaching materials will be developed and field trips to municipal airports and industrial plants will constitute a valuable part of the workshop. Arrangements have been made to offer limited elective special training in journalism, television and photography as well as optional flight instruction and flight experiences. (Graduate or undergraduate credit.)
“Education 585 Advanced National Aviation Education Workshop. Summer 1959. Prerequisite: Consent of Director of Workshop. A graduate course dealing with curriculum developments for Aerospace Education in the elementary, secondary, and Civil Air Patrol programs. This course is intended for graduate students who have previously enrolled in an aviation education workshop and will require research on advanced Aerospace Education problems as well as a special project in curriculum development.” Prerequisites for attendance at the National Workshop, based upon “consent of (Continued on page T-3)
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
('Continued from page T-l)
University of Nebraska Lincoln, Nebraska	Mr. A1 Lease Same address	June 9 to Aug. 7 ^
University of Nevada Reno, Nevada	Dr. Burton C. Newbry Same address	June 8 to June 20
University of Nevada Southern Regional Division Las Vegas, Nevada	Dr. Herbert Derfelt Same address	June 8 to June 20
Keene State Teachers College Keene, New Hampshire		June 15 to June 26, or Aug. 10 to 21
Eastern New Mexico University Portales, New Mexico	Dr. Warren Watkins Same address	June 8 to June 13
State University Teachers College Plattsburgh, New York	Dr. Fred B. Tuttle Same address	July 20 to July 31
University of North Dakota Grand Forks, North Dakota	Dean M. Cushman Same address	July 20 to July 24
Miami University Oxford, Ohio	Dr. John A. Whitesel Same address	June 22 to July 24
East Central State College Ada, Oklahoma	Mr. Ray Stegall Same address	June 8 to June 19
Oregon State Dept, of Higher Education Location to be announced	Dr. Don W. Stotler Dept, of Higher Education Salem, Oregon	July 13 to Aug. 8
Bucknell University Lewisburg, Pennsylvania	Mr. Harwood J. Rhodes 1306 Orange Street Berwick, Pennsylvania	Aug. 10 to Aug. 21
Central High School Philadelphia, Pennsylvania	Mr. Byron Lukens School District Philadelphia, Penna.	June 29 to July 15
University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico	Sr. Jose Lopez	June 5 to July 23 ^
University of South Carolina Columbia, South Carolina	Mr. A. V. Thomas Mr. John F. Barry State Aeronautics Commission Columbia, South Carolina	July 20 to Aug. 7 ^
Black Hills Teachers College Spearfish, South Dakota	Mrs. Lucy George Same address	July 13 to Aug. 14
State University of South Dakota Vermillion, South Dakota	Mr. C. R. Estree Same address	June 17 to June 19
Middle Tennessee State College Murfreesboro, Tennessee	Dr. Clarence E. Kuhlman Educational Director College of Business Administration University of Tennessee Knoxville, Tennessee	June 10 to July 10
East Texas State College Commerce, Texas	Professor L. V. Lieb Same address	June 3 to June 19
Stephen F. Austin State College Nacogdoches, Texas	Mr. William J. McCallum Same address	June 8 to June 12
Texas Technological College Lubbock, Texas	Dr. Carey T. Southall Same address	June 15 to July 3
West Texas State College Canyon, Texas	Dr. Kenneth W. Waugh Same address	July 20 to Aug. 7
Utah State College Logan, Utah	Mr. Lowell P. Summers Same address	June 8 to June 19
University of Virginia Charlottesville, Virginia	Lt. Col. Homer Humphreys Principal West Point High School West Point, Virginia	Not decided (
Central Washington College of Education Ellensburg, Washington	Miss Coral Bloom Diablo Valley College Concord, California	Aug. 10 to Aug. 21 ^
University of Wyoming Laramie, Wyoming	Mr. George Nelson State Aeronautics Commission Cheyenne, Wyoming	Date not given