Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
life of the islands to illustrate ways in which union is expected to benefit them.
THE RICHES OF THE INDIES - Takes stock of the economic situation in the Indies, and shows the development programs being carried out to stimulate industry and all forms of production.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF FREEDOM -An appraisal of the problems that face the people of the Federation as they take up the challenge of their new nationhood.
MUSIC FROM OIL DRUMS - 15 min., black and white, sound. Folkways Records and Service Corp., 117 W. 46th Street, New York 36, N.Y.
Produced by Pete and Toshi Seeger. Describes the historical development of the steel drum on the island of Trinidad. Shows how the instrument is made by hand and how it is kept in tune. Drums with various tonal ranges are combined by the natives to form a band. The ideal of the players is the perfection of the rhythmic pattern. The instruments are adapted for use by a school group in the United States. This film is most unusual because of its manner of approach, spontaneity of actors and narrator, and novelty of subject.
CARIBBEAN — 25 min., black and white, sound. Instructional Films, Wilmette, 111. A film study of the social, educational and economic progress made by the peoples of the West Indies in recent years. Present day conditions are viewed against a background of ancient traditions and customs. Markets, occupations, community activities, and music are surveyed. It portrays the life and livelihoods of the peoples of the West Indies. Fine in that the film shows native, not tourist life.
JOURNEY INTO FRIENDSHIP - 30 min., color, sound. Simplex Time Recorder Co., Gardner, Mass.
A filming of a trip made by high school students from Gardner, Massachusetts, to the Island of Trinidad in order to participate in the Mardi Gras celebration there in February, 1956.
THE WEST INDIES: GEOGRAPHY OF THE AMERICAS - Coronet Films, 11 min., sound, black and white and color. Coronet Building, Chicago 1, 111.
Stressing the varied population, terrain, resources and opportunities for economic growth of the islands, this film examines modern trends toward industry and the older traditions of large plantations and small farms, raising a large variety of semi-tropical food crops.
DISCOVER JAMAICA - 27 min., sound, color. Sterling-Movies, U.S.A., 43 West 61st Street, New York City.
Sponsored by the Jamaica Tourist Trade Development Board, this film pictures the resort areas on the island of Jamaica, to the accompaniment of calypso music.
YANVALLON — 10 min., sound, color. Brandon Films, 200 West 57th Street, New York City.
Depicts an authentic West Indian dance, ritual rite of the snake god of the Dahoman tribe, performed on the Trinidad Seashore.
GARDENS OF THE CARIBBEAN - 16 min., sound, silent, black and white. James A. Fitzpatrick Travel Pictures, 8624 Sunset Boulevard, Hollywood 46, Calif.
One of the Fitzpatrick travel-talk series. The film depicts a boat trip from Barbados to Trinidad. The natural pitch lake in Trinidad, the substance of which is used in the building of roads, makes Trinidad the most prosperous island of the British West Indies.
WEST INDIES — 11 min., sound, black and white. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Historical development and economic geography of the islands are shown. The film stresses the imports and exports, the agricultural methods, contrasting hand labor with machine. The importance of these islands in the near future is predicted. Animated maps are used to highlight the topics.
Filmstrips
ISLAND PEOPLE OF MIDDLE AMERICA — 50 frames, silent with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111. Correlated with the book “Geography of the American Peoples”by Wallace R. McConnell. Focuses on the economic and political importance of the West Indies. Depicts life in the city and country.
JAMAICA — 44 frames, silent, color with script. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.
Produced with the cooperation of the American Geographical Society. Photographs are used to depict this island of sugar, rum, bananas, spices and now bauxite. Surveys landscape, natural resources and human activities. Shows how Jamaicans are working to overcome problems of poverty and overcrowding.
COLONIAL EMPIRE: INTRODUCING THE CARIBBEAN COLONIES - 42 frames, silent, black and white with lecture guide. Lester A. Schonfeld Films, 358 West 44th Street, New York City.
Produced in cooperation with British Information Service. This filmstrip presents a survey of the background, social conditions and progress of the people of the British West Indies.
WEST INDIES — 70 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., 1150 Wilmette Avenue, Wilmette, 111.
Surveys the history of the Caribbean region. Portrays geographical features, natural resources, industries, and characteristics of the peoples. Reviews political development. Portrays activities in production of coffee, cocoa, tobacco, sugar, and bananas.
OUR CARIBBEAN NEIGHBORS - 45 frames, silent with captions, black and white. New York Times, Office of Educational Activities, Times Square, New York 36, N.Y.
Significant changes in the governments, economies and social structure of Caribbean lands, new West Indies Federation, Cuba Puerto Rico,
Recordings Tape Recordings
THE WEST INDIES - 14:30 minutes — F' Tapes, Scripts and Transcriptions. Educators Progress Service, Randolph, Wiscon-

This tape was produced by the British Information Service. The script is as follows: April 22, 1958 marked the opening of the first Federal Parliament of the West Indies. This program is about that new nation, which marks a great advance in the 300 year-old history of the ten islands in the Caribbean which now make up the Federation. It also marks the beginning of the final stage in the progress of this group toward self-government. It describes the capital at Jamaica, the great airport served by fifteen air lines which lies just outside of Kingston, and the geographical spread of the Federation.
MUSIC MAKING - WEST INDIAN STYLE — 14:30 minutes — Free Tapes, Scripts and Transcriptions. Educators Progress Service, Randolph, Wisconsin.
This tape was produced by the British Information Service. The script is as follows: This program observes the establishment of the British West Indies independence. On this occasion of the beginning of the West Indies Federation, this musical program attempts to describe the excitement that pervades the atmosphere of the ten island colonies that belong to the new fedei^j tion. Because one of the best ways to expi^B this excitement is through music, the pi™ gram depicts the performance of a Calypso band usually composed of a beaten up old trombone, perhaps a banjo, and some whistles. This type of band usually is hired to liven up an affair or a meeting.
Records
Calypso and Meringues (FW 6808) Caribbean Dances (FW 6840)
Jamaican Folk Songs (FW 6846)
Steel Band, Trinidan Panharmonic Orchestra (FW 6865)
Calypso, Volume 2 (FW 6914)
Songs of the British West Indies (FW 8809) Caribbean Rhythms (FW8811)
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th Street New York City — 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
From Martinique, land of the “Beguine”, to Trinidad, where Calypso and carnival abound, Folkways Records offers a selection of more than a dozen record albums of music from the Caribbean, ranging from Calypso music of Trinidad, Caribbean Songs and Dances, Folk Music of Jamaica, Folk Songs and Dances.
Caribbean Dances . . . Mambo, Calypso, and other island rhythms recorded in the Islands, with complete description of Dance^ Rhythms of the Caribbean . . . island soi^| in calypso, mambo, bolero styles. BritnH West Indies Songs . . . favorites of the Caril> bean islands sung by the Caribbean Chorus of McGill University.
All record albums are accompanied by detailed descriptive notes pictorially illustrated.