Page 10
trade; yellow and orange bamboo; rafting down the Rio Grande in Jamaica; Black River; Dunn’s River Falls; Columbus visited, 1494 and nine years later was stranded there; limestone island; bauxite.
g.	TURKS and CAICOS — dependency of Jamaica; two islands, Grand Turk and Salt Cay, separated by Turk’s Island Passage; salt; sponges, sisal hemp; hurricanes; discovered 1512.
h.	CAYMAN — dependency of Jamaica; discovered by Columbus, 1503; never occupied by Spain.
i.	ANTIGUA - BARBUDA - RE-DONDA—capital, St. Johns; mountainous; coral and volcanic; “where there is sunshine every day of the year”; many natural harbors; Columbus, 1493; sugar, cotton; U.S. seaplane base.
j.	MONTSERRAT - capital, Plymouth; “Emerald Island of the West”; cultivated forests; cotton seed, cotton lint; Columbus, 1493; smallest of the islands.
k.	ST. KITTS — Basseterre, capital; volcanic; Mt. Misery,highest point; macadamized road around the island; Columbus, 1493.
l.	NEVIS - ANGUILLA - Charleston, chief town of Nevis, birthplace of Alexander Hamilton; sugar; Columbus, 1493; main products of Anguila, sea island cotton, cattle, phosphate of lime, salt.
m.	ST. VINCENT - capital, Kingstown; volcanic; cotton, xopra, cocoa, molasses, spices; Carib Indians; Columbus, 1498; hurricanes and volcanoes.
n.	DOMINICA — capital, Roseau; mountainous, volcanic; Morne Dia-blotin, highest point; forests not developed; Columbus, 1493.
2.	Science: on St. Lucia, tropical birds, game fish, giant ferns, flamingo trees, tropical plants, large fish and lobsters, sulphur springs; on Barbados, flying fish at Tant Bay; coral rock; farliense fern; on Grenada, Grand Anse, coconut palms on sand; on Trinidad, a wonderful bird called “Qu’est ce qu’il dit?” (What did he say?); deer, small game; flowers, cabbage palms, orchids; pitch lake; on Jamaica, 52 species of birds, silk cotton tree or carba, poin-ciana; on Turks and Caicos, numerous small cays; sponges; on Tobago, bird of paradise sanctuary on Ingram Island.
3.	Music: native, mostly simple; Barbados, Calypso singers and Barbadien bands; Jamaica, concerts by Jamaica Military Band; Trinidad, home of Calypso; use pans and steel oil drums, 19 to 32 notes, difficult tuning; Grenada, music like Calypso, steel bands.
4.	Art: Barbados, museum, historical, archaelogical, natural history exhibits; St. Michael’s Cathedral; Grenada, native carvings, curios; Trinidad, silver jewelry; Jamaica, Institute of Jamaica, galleries, Arawak carvings; silver col-
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
lection of Henry Morgan; Montserrat, famous monastery.
5.	Health: much beach area for swimming; sports, swimming, fishing, water polo, yacht regattas, tennis, horse racing, basketball, golf, duck shooting; Trinidad, creole cooking; Jamaica, mutton, most important meat.
6.	Language arts:
a.	New words: — listed in this issue.
b.	Literature: — Tobago, Robinson Crusoe’s island.
c.	Oral and written communication: — writing to places suggested for more information; talking about islands which have been visited; comparing facts; planning an air tour of the islands; reporting on the beginning of the federation; reviewing some of the books and motion pictures; writing stories of imaginary trips to one or more of the islands.
7.	Mathematics: — graphs showing comparisons in population, exports, imports, area; coins of the islands; time, distance; comparison of travel time by water and by air.
B. Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	To arouse an interest and understanding of the problems which brought about the formation of the federation.
2.	To create an interest in the people of
the islands, their customs and culture.
3.	To bring about an understanding of the progress resulting from the advent of the airplane.
4.	To show how exchange of ideas from the growing tourist industry have brought about changes in the islands.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES
A.	Things to do:
1.	Collect newspaper and magazine articles on the West Indies federation.
2.	Plan an air trip to the islands mentioning interesting places to visit. (An article in the New York Times of Feb. 8, 1959, “Side trips by air in the Caribbean” will help.)
3.	Draw a product map of the islands.
4.	Make graphs showing comparative size of the islands, population, exports and imports.
5.	Read and report on the listed books and magazine articles.
6.	Interview some people who have visited some of the islands.
7.	Write to the places listed for more information and for illustrative material.
8.	Make slides of some of the most interesting places.
9.	Discuss some of the customs prevalent on the islands as well as the reasons for forming the federation.
B.	CULMINATION:
1.	Prepare a travelogue to present in the assembly to introduce other classes to the West Indies Federation.
2.	Invite someone who has visited many of the islands to speak to several classes and, perhaps, show pictures.
3.	Any of the items above may be used as a culmination.
VI.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS: A study of The West Indies Federation might create a desire to learn more about
islands in the same vicinity which are not part of the federation.
What did you learn about The West Indies Federation?
1.	Can you name the islands which make up the West Indies Federation?
2.	When was this federation formed?
3.	Name the two tribes of Indians which were found on the islands.
4.	Which is the smallest island? The largest?
5.	What explorer stopped at most of the islands?
6.	Which island was called “Land of the Humming Bird?”
7.	On which island did Calypso music originate?
8.	On which island will we find the lake of pitch?
9.	On which island was Alexander Hamilton born?
10.	Which island did George Washington visit?
11.	About which island is the story of Robinson Crusoe written?
12.	On which island are flying fishes found?
13.	Which island is called “Little England?”
14.	Which are called the spice islands?
15.	On which island would one hear the most numerous languages?
16.	On which island do we find the bird of paradise sanctuary?
17.	Which island has changed hands more often than any of the others?
18.	Which island is the home of Angostura bitters?
19.	On which island do we find teak fores'
20.	‘What are tonka beans? Where are th<? found?
21.	Which island did Sir Walter Raleigh visit?
22.	What place is called “Fair Weather Bay?”
23.	On which island may 52 species of birds be found?
24.	Which island is noted for rum and ginger?
25.	Of which island do they say, “there is sunshine every day of the year?”
26.	Which islands are dependencies of the island of Jamaica?
27.	From which island do we get sponges and sisal hemp?
28.	Which island is called “Emerald Island of the West?”
29.	Which has a macadamized road around the entire island?
30.	Which is noted for sea island cotton?
31.	What is the smallest village in the world with an air strip in its “front yard?”
32.	Can you locate “the graveyard of the Caribbean?”
33.	Which island of the group is believed to be the most beautiful?
34.	On which island was Horatio Nelson married?
35.	Why was the federation formed?
II. DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1.	How will this political unification g: increased impetus to the econom growth of these islands?
2.	Why is this group called “the thirteen colonies of the Caribbean?”
3.	How has the airplane been responsible for so much of the important change in these islands?
tra
9
9