Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
peasant agriculture. The large estates are concerned with the main industries of the Island such as cocoa and nutmegs and to a lesser extent coconuts, limes, sugar and bananas. Various kinds of fish are caught around the shores and there is good sport-fishing. There are a few local manufacturing plants including rum distilleries, ice factories, a cigarette factory and several aerated water plants. There is a modern sugar factory but not enough unrefined sugar is produced to supply all local needs. Soap, coconut oil and coconut meal are made from coconuts.
St. Lucia, most northerly of the Windward Islands, is separated from Martinique on the north by a 25 mile channel and from St. Vincent on the south by a 20 mile channel. Its maximum length is 27 miles and its maximum width is 14 miles. Total population is 89,862 with 24,550 residing in Castries, the Capital, well situated on a magnificent land-locked harbor in the northwestern part of the Island. Of a total area of 152,320 acres, 56,000 are devoted to agriculture and 32,000 more are suitable for agriculture, the main industry providing employment for most of the people. Staple crops are sugar cane, bananas, coconuts, and cacoa while fruits, spices, honey bay oil, bay rum, cotton and rice also provide employment.
There is keen interest in livestock. Large dairy farmers raise graded Holsteins and Guernseys. Pig raising is also profitable among peasant farmers and estate owners. Rain forests cover 20,000 acres in the mountainous interior and lumber and charcoal are exported to neighboring islands, principally Barbados. There are about 25 factories including sugar, lime, bay rum, edible oils, aerated waters, soap, furniture, rice hulling, brick, ice, printing, cotton, rum and molasses. Air service is via Vigie Airport.
St. Vincent lies 100 miles west of Barbados. Of volcanic origin, it is 18 miles long and 11 miles wide. Total population numbers 78,594. The Grenadines lying north of Car-riacou are dependencies of St. Vincent. None of them exceeds 1,100 feet. Kingstown is the Capital of the Island. An area of 4,000 acres of land in the Leeward District has been purchased by the Government for land settlement, under the control of the Land Settlement and Development Board. The chief agricultural products are sugar, coconuts, bananas and arrowroot. Secondary products include cocoa, cotton, ground nuts and other foods. There are two Government owned and operated dairy farms in the Colony possessing high-grade Friesian and Jersey cattle. Most of the Island’s central mountain range and main spurs are Crown property, covered with forests, but few trees are of economic value. Catches of varying size are made by local fishermen. A small whaling industry exists and the catching of sharks and black fish has developed. There is one sugar factory and a small but well-equipped rum distillery.
The general pattern of trade of the West Indies has remained fairly constant with the United Kingdom taking an average, of forty to forty-five percent of exports and supplying nearly forty percent of imports. Where the area’s staple agricultural exports are concerned, the relationship with the United Kingdom is even closer, for Britain takes the bulk of sugar, the entire banana crop and most of the citrus. Trade links with the United States and Canada are also strong. These countries take about a quarter of the exports and provide about a quarter of their imports. Imports from the United States would no doubt have been higher in the post-war period but for dollar restrictions. Since 1951, however, these have been eased,
ST. LUCIA — The peak is Petit Piton near the town of Soufriere. There is a larger peak in the vicinity called, naturally, Gros Piton. Such mountain peaks rising out of the ocean illustrate the fact that the Caribbean island chain actually is a partly submerged mountain
range.
and trade with the dollar area is gradually being liberalized.	A
United States commerce has shown stead™ and in some instances spectacular increases. For example, United States exports to Trinidad and Tobago in 1957 approximately doubled the figures for 1955, rising to over $28 million. Jamaica however, is still the largest customer among British Colonies receiving goods valued at $39 million in 1957. Machinery, finished products and other manufactures are the bulk of United States exports. Since the economy of most of the West Indies is based on agricultural or mineral development, most United States imports are of raw commodities, principally coffee, petroleum, sugar and, to a growing extent iron ore and bauxite. Formation of the Federation of the West Indies is of significant interest to us as it will give increased impetus to economic growth. While its economy is primarily agricultural, the growing economic importance of the area is due to steady expansion of the tourist trade, the development of the bauxite industry in Jamaica, and the petroleum industry in Trinidad, and the Federations’ programs for industrial and agricultural development through the attraction of foreign capital investments.
As a customer for West Indian exports, the United States is in third place with about 10 percent. Important increases may be expected in U.S. imports in view of the development of the bauxite industry anc^j the demand for it by aluminum man lilac* turers. U.S. business concerns, which in the* past have exported from home manufacturing plants to the West Indies or through subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, have in some cases shown an interest in the establishment of medium-sized manufacturing units within the Federation, principally in Jamaica. Already some American firms have licensed agents or representatives to manufacture their products under royalty arrangements. Tax and tariff inducements will undoubtedly encourage further investments.
Government
The first concrete step along the road to political federation of British colonies in the West Indies was taken at Montego Bay, Jamaica in September, 1947.
At that time the colonies met and resolved that steps should be taken toward a political union in which each unit would retain complete control over all matters except those specifically assigned to the federal government. They also recommended increased responsibility for unit governments; and today several of these governments are on the verge of almost complete internal autonomy.
Many conferences and committee meetings were held since the Montego Bay Conference, culminating in the establishment of the Federation of the West Indies on January 3 1958.
The preamble to the Constitution of the Federation affirms the principles of freedom of religious worship and freedom of movement of persons and goods within the Federation, and sets out the aim of establishing, as quickly as possible, a customs union includ-