Page T-4
PA.IV AtVfERICAKT
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
ft
HAWAII — a favorite pastime at Waikiki Beach, and elsewhere in the Hawaiian Islands,is surf-boating by outrigger canoe. You paddle out to a spot 100 yards or more offshore, head the canoe toward the beach, and wait for a big wave to come along. As it approaches, everybody paddles like mad to get enough forward motion so that when the wave arrives, the canoe will take up a position on top of it, and ride it in to the beach.
HAWAII-OUR 50th STATE
Over a hundred years ago, President Franklin Pierce cast his eyes across the Pacific, and proposed that the strategic islands of Hawaii he taken into the Union. The plan failed, but, finally, after many years of trying, Hawaii has finally made it. On Wednesday, March 11, the U.S. Senate voted approval by 76 to 15, the next day, the House of Representatives voted 323 to 89 for Hawaii’s statehood. President Eisenhower signed the bill into law March 17th.
At the time this article was written, these were the steps to be followed: The Governor was to issue, within thirty days after March 17, an election proclamation calling for a primary election to take place within 60 to 90 days. The general election then was to follow, within forty days of the primary, and was to include a referendum on the question of statehood. Next on the schedule was certification of the general election to the President of the United States paving the way for a Presidential Proclamation naming Hawaii as a State.
Alaska’s star will go, officially, on the flag on July 4th, but it will probably be late summer or early autumn before Hawaii’s will join it.
For Hawaii, statehood means more autonomy. It will have the right to elect a Governor (he is now a Presidential appointee). It also means that it will have voting representation in Congress — two Senators and one Representative, — instead of one non-voting delegate.
The legislative branch of the Island’s government consists of a Senate of 15 members and a House of Representatives of 30 members. This will essentially, remain the same, but Territorial functions will now become State functions, with greater responsibilities.
For the United States, admission to the Union means a demonstration of democracy
UP-DATE YOUR W.A.T. HAWAII UNIT
A World Airways Teacher study unit on Hawaii is included in the bound collection of reprints, Group II.
If you hold the Group II collection, update your Hawaii unit by inserting this page at the appropriate place in your binder.
and a blow against Communist assertions that the United States regards Asians as inferiors. It also means that for the first time, the Union extends far into the Pacific and includes territory that is not part of or an extension of the North American continent.
Tourism, Hawaii’s fastest growing industry, has grown, in the past decade tenfold. Many factors, such as the improvement of carrier facilities, the westward migration on the mainland, the rise in income which allows more families to enjoy a Hawaiian vacation have all played important roles in this growth.
Perhaps, the greatest growth is yet to come, and to come soon. Before the end of this year, Pan American will be flying its huge, swift Jet Clippers from the United States mainland to Hawaii. The Jets, with speeds close to 600 miles an hour, and ca^ rying up to 165 passengers, will bring Haw^B within six hours of California, and sliglwH over 10 hours from New York, and the east coast.
Statehood and soon to come Jet Clipper travel from the North American continent add stature and significance to Hawaii, the Paradise of the Pacific.