BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
WEST INDIES
Page 11
4.	What will the people of the Federation have to plan for if they wish to make tourism the leading industry? What have the people of the islands gained by federating?
III. MATCH THE ISLAND AND THE

CAPITAL: ANTIGUA BARBADOS DOMINICA GRENADA JAMAICA MONTSERRAT NEVIS ST. LUCIA ST. VINCENT TRINIDAD
KINGSTOWN
ST. GEORGE’S
BRIDGETOWN
PORT OF SPAIN
ST. JOHNS
BASSETERRE
KINGSTON
ROSEAU
PLYMOUTH
CASTRIES
IV. COMPLETE THE SENTENCE:
1.	The inauguration was attended by
Princess .................
2.	The islands vary a great deal in
The two Indian tribes were the
............ and the ..............
The Crown is represented by the
5.	Each territory has two senators except
.................... which has one.
6.	The important city in Jamaica is
7.
8.
Many tourists visit Jamaica to stay at
................... Bay.
The center of the federation is the city
of ...................
The entire population of the federation is...................million.
One of the major influences affecting the forming of the federation was the rapid development of.................
The meanings of these words will be help-
ful to you: adjacent	close to, near, beside
advent	the arrival or coming of
aerated	someone or something supplied or charged with air
allocation	or gas apportion, placing, setting
ample	apart large, great in amount,
arable	sufficient capable of being plowed or
archaeologists	cultivated those who study relics and
aspirations	remains desires, ambitions
attributable	due to, referable
autonomy	self determination,
billowing	self government swelling, surging
commodity	an article of trade, some-
concurrent	thing bought and sold acting together, meeting at
condensery	the same point condensed milk factory
consultative	having the duty of giving
j^tivable	advice may be cultivated
^■Tcpancy	disagreement, difference
Hitillery	establishment which distills
diversity	or extracts by vaporization and condensation dissimilar, difference
erosion	wearing away by water
exertions	vigorous actions, strong
	efforts
exploited	used in selfish schemes
extermination	destroying entirely, driving out
federation	a league, national union, alliance
formidable	dangerous, tremendous
franchise	a right of the people, a right to vote
galleons	large three decker ships of the 15th. to 17th. century
impetus	drive, force, an impulse
inaccessible	not easy to get to
inadequate	not sufficient, lack of
incentive	impulse for action, encouraging
infernally	unbearably hot
insuperable	cannot be overcome or surpassed
ken	to know, see, admit
liberalized	freed from narrowness, broadened
lush	fresh, abundant
lusty	pleasureful
mandatory	a command, requirement
mentor	teacher, wise guide, advisor
niches	recessed spaces, hollows
polyglot	many languages
promontory	a rounded projection
relics	remains, portions of things destroyed
retention	keeping up a practice, maintenance
royalty	a share of proceeds, a tax
sectors	parts of
sparse	scattered, distances apart, few
subjugation	enslavement, conquered
subsidiary	an auxiliary, assistant
subsidy	aid granted by government, money furnished
topography	physical features of a place
tribulations	sufferings, griefs, distresses
tutelage	under the guidance or teaching of, guardianship
ubiquitous	seeming to be everywhere at once, always present
ultimate	final, essential
unsurpassed	cannot be excelled, none better than
verdant	green with vegetation
Bibliography, West Indies Federation
Brown — Angry Men - Laughing Men — Greenberg
Chandos — Trade Wind Islands — Doubleday Early — Ports of the Sun — Houghton Mifflin Lanks — Highway Across the West Indies — Appleton
Oakley — Behold the West Indies — Longman-Green
Roberts — Lands of the Inner Sea — Coward-McCann
Waugh —• Sugar Islands — Farrar-Straus Clark — All the Best in the Caribbean — Dodd
Seaton — Let’s Go to the West Indies — Prentice Hall
Smith — Escape to the West Indies — Knopf! Blanshard — Democracy and Empire in the Caribbean — Macmillan Quinn — Picture Map of the West Indies — Lippincott
Pan American World Airways Teacher — February 1953
(NOTE: Since the West Indies Federation is very new magazine articles will be helpful in giving the most recent information)
Current Magazine Articles
Time — February 25, 1957; January 13, 1958; May 20, 1957; November 17, 1958; April 7, 1958; May 5, 1958; March 24, 1958 Newsweek — January 13, 1958; November 25, 1957; February 11,' 1958; February 25, 1957; May 5, 1958
Saturday Evening Post — January 11, 1958 Business World — February 23, 1957; January 11, 1958
School and Society — November 23, 1957 Commonwealth — October 10, 1958 House Beautiful — November 1958 Nature — November 1958 New Yorker — June 22, 1958 U.S. State Department Bulletin — May 12, 1958
Americas — July 1958 Atlantic — March 1958 Life — May 5, 1958
New York Times Magazine Section — August 10, 1958
For further information
British Information Services 45 Rockefeller Plaza New York 20, N. Y.
Antigua Tourist Commission St. Johns, Antigua Barbados Publicity Commission 122 East 42 Street, New York City Tourist Trade Development Board Grenada
St. Lucia Tourist Trade Development Board Castries, St. Lucia
Trinidad and Tobago Tourist Board 122 East 42 Street, New York City Jamaica Government Tourist Board 630 Fifth Ave., New York City West Indies Bureau Travel Agency 515 Madison Ave., New York City
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
NEW NATION IN THE WEST INDIES SERIES — A series of four films, each 27 min. sd. black and white, produced by the National Film Board of Canada dealing with the new West Indies Federation — available from McGraw Hill Inc. — Text Film Division, 330 West 42nd Street, N.Y. 36, Contemporary Films, Inc., 267 West 25th Street, N.Y. 1.
BACKGROUND TO FEDERATION -Ten Caribbean Island units have pooled their resources in a common future, as part of the British Commonwealth. What are their problems, hopes and aspirations? These and other pertinent questions are discussed by authorities.
WEAKNESS INTO STRENGTH-Spokes-men draw many examples from the multiracial origins and the political and economic