Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XV, No. 4
AVIATION EDUCATION WORKSHOPS SET AT MORE THAN FORTY COLLEGES
We’re in the Air Age, the Space Age and the Atomic Age all at the same time, and this is a fact of life that has been recognized by the directors of more than forty ayiation education workshops which will be in session across the country this summer.
Whether the project has to be compressed into two intensive weeks, or can be taken at a more leisurely pace over five, or somewhere between those limits, the objective of an aviation education workshop is the same —to provide indoctrination which will bring fresh viewpoints and up-to-date factual knowledge to instruction in geography, social studies, the sciences and other subjects.
College credit is offered, and the cost is ^^nnparable to that of other summer work-^B)ps. or summer courses in teacher train-institutions, of like duration and scope. A list of workshops announced for this summer, with addresses appears at right and on page T-2. The list represents information available at time of compilation, collected by Dr. Evan Evans, Executive Director of the National Aviation Education Council and by the Aviation Education Office of the Civil Air Patrol.
There will be a national workshop this year, sponsored by Montana State University, Montana Aeronautics Commission, the Civil Air Patrol and the United States Air Force.
Tire -pattern n-f tir-e NwtiwKRi A-sw'««?, cation Workshop was developed in three successive summers at the University of Colorado, and further perfected in a session at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. In 1958, the national project was omitted, but a Pacific Coast Regional Aviation Education Workshop was successfully conducted in Honolulu by the University of Hawaii, the Civil Air Patrol and the United States Air Force. Its format resembled that of the national workshops, and it rivalled them in size, as well, but with participants mostly from Hawaii and from the western part of the United States.
Actually, the objectives of all aviation education workshops are about the same,
•^hether they are national, regional or local, Pad the method of attaining them may be illustrated by quoting from the announcement of the 1959 National Aviation Education Workshop, as follows:
“Education 485 National Aviation Education Workshop. Summer 1959. Prerequisite: (<Continued on page T-2)
AVIATION EDUCATION WORKSHOPS, SUMMER 1959
(Alphabetically by states)
W orkshop anti Location	Director	-Dates
University of Alaska Elmendorf Air Force Base	Dr. Roland H. Spaulding, New York University (Address inquiries to Dr. William K. Keller University of Alaska Fairbanks, Alaska.)	June 3 to July 1
University of Arizona Tucson, Arizona	Dr. Milo K. Blecha Same address	July 13 to Aug. 15
Arkansas State Teachers College Conway, Arkansas	Mr. Clarence S. Williams Same address	June 8 to June 26
Long Beach State College Long Beach, Calif.	Dr. C. Thomas Dean Same Address	Aug. 3 to 28
Los Angeles State College Los Angeles, Calif.	Dr. Marion Wagstaff Same address	Aug. 3 to 31
Colorado State College Greeley, Colorado	Dr. Harley F. Glidden Same address	June 15 to June 25
University of Hartford Hartford, Conn.	Dr. Irving S. Starr Same address	June 22 to July 25
College of Idaho Caldwell, Idaho	Dr. Donald J. Mammen Same address	July 27 to Aug. 7
National College of Education Evanston, Illinois	Mr. Nelson L. Lowry Arlington High School Arlington Heights, Illinois	Aug. 3 to Aug. 14
JVnrllxerD Illinois University	Dr. B. Ross Guest	June 29 tojuly 17
DeKalb, Illinois	Dept, of Earth Science Same address	
Drake University College of Education Des Moines, Iowa	Mr. Arthur W. Mullens Same address	June 8 to July 17
Iowa State Teachers College Cedar Falls, Iowa	Dr. William H. Dreier Same address	June 15 to Aug. 7
University of Iowa Iowa City, Iowa	Dr. J. Lindquist Same address	To be announced
Friends University Wichita, Kansas	Mr. Alvin Allen Same address	July 20 to Aug. 7
University of Wichita Wichita, Kansas	Dr. Walter Lucas Same address	June 1 to June 12
Mankato State College Mankato, Minnesota	Dr. G. M. Wissink Same Address	June 8 to July 14
St. Cloud State College St. Cloud, Minnesota	Dr. R. C. Anderson Same address	July 20 to Aug. 7
Montana State University Missoula, Montana (National Workshop)	Mr. E. A. Atkinson Same address	June 29 to July 31
(.List continued on page T-2)