BY FLYING CUPPER TO
WEST INDIES
Page 3
f THE WEST INDIES FEDERATION
by Enrique Portes
crickets or cicadas through the open windows of a drawing room. To an impartial visitor viewing the glorious color of the immortelle, the poui or the poinsettia, the people of the West Indies may seem to be getting the best of both worlds.
“May the people of The West Indies ‘dwell together in unity’. I pray the blessing of Almighty God may rest, upon your deliberations.”
So ended the special message from Queen Elizabeth II, read by her sister, Princess Margaret, before the first Parliament of The West Indies in April of 1958.
It was a great ceremony. It marked the culmination of many political events. Early in 1956, in London, leaders from the Caribbean islands took the final decision to ask that the various territories should be bound together in a Federation. Later in 1956, the British Caribbean Federation Act was passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom; this enabled a Federal Constitution to be drawn up.
In 1957, this Constitution was set out. in an Order of The Queen in Council. Early in 1958, the Governor-General of The West Indies took office. Then a Senate was appointed with representatives from each Territory. Immediately elections were held throughout the islands to choose members of the House of Representatives. Princess Margaret was there in Trinidad for the inauguration. The Legislature had become a fact, and the Federation of the West Indies
i- for so long a dream — “a living reality.” Congratulations from the Queen were in rcler. Replying, the Federal Prime Minister called the ceremony “a starting point and a climax of the hopes and aspirations of many generations of West Indian peoples.” A peo-jale who had been inspired “by the vision of a West Indies united by mutual interest and need, and bound together by the ties of language and culture, of constitutional principle and practice, of a common legal system, of respect for the democratic way of life, and of pride in their membership of the British Commonwealth of Nations. The geographical barriers against unity were formidable and perhaps insuperable before the advent of the Air Age.”
Gathered in the Legislative Council Chamber of Trinidad was a distinguished audience, representatives of many countries, including the United States.
§
What is this new Federation which has been established just next door to the IJ. S.? It stretches a thousand miles from Jamaica which lies in the Greater Antilles between Cuba and Haiti to Trinidad which is separated from the South Amercan Continent by a passage not wider than a dozen miles. Between these two extremes, the two largest islands of The West Indies, lie the smaller ones in the Eastern Caribbean — Grenada, St. Vincent, St. Lucia, Dominica, Montserrat, ^ntigua and St. Kitts. These stretch north id south in an arc of nearly 500 miles. Then lere is Barbados a hundred miles to the cast which, in its physical characteristics, is unique — a low-lying coral island, sparse of vegetation save for the ubiquitous sugarcane.
'Flic islands vary a great deal in size. Of a total land area of 8,000 square miles. Jamaica lias 4,700, Trinidad 2,000, while the
remaining 1,300 square miles is divided between eight territories. The smallest one, Montserrat, is thirty-two square miles in area.
And as they differ in size, so do they differ in natural characteristics. The topography is very different. Jamaica is a limestone plateau whose valleys form four-fifths of the total land surface. In the Leeward Islands, there is fertile soil but inadequate rainfall while in some of the islands there is considerable soil erosion.
The mountainous character of the land in many of the islands makes cultivation difficult. According to a story, when Columbus was asked to describe one of the islands he crumpled a piece of paper and threw it on the table — the nearest parallel he could give of the numerous folds and valleys of the island.
Today’s description, if less dramatic, is more exact, and includes details of such things as geological structure and an analysis of the soil. As a result where Columbus missed gold, modern explorers find bauxite. The beautiful hills of Jamaica have been found to cover rich bauxite deposits.
Visitors differ widely in their opinion of the climate of the islands. It all depends on your sense of language and your country of origin whether you call a temperature ranging from 75 to 85° pleasant, warm or infernally hot. West Indians like it and many others seek it out in winter.
In general, the islands give an impression of lush green foliage. Many houses have gardens or yards in which can be found breadfruit, mango, plum or guava trees, and it is not unusual to hear the sound of frogs,
Columbus saw them first
The history of the West Indies begins in 1492 when Columbus landed on San Salvador after the wearing, plodding months across the Atlantic. But those islands had their own people — the Caribs and the Arawaks. Relics are stored in institutes and museums waiting for the archaeologists to fit them into their proper niches in the reconstruction of time past. After Columbus, those people suffered subjugation, work in mines, extermination. A few of them still live in reserves in Dominica but they play no significant part in the life of the Caribbean islands.
The sudden entry of these new islands into Europe’s ken was to lead to a great outburst of activity. The sea route to the Spanish Main reddened with the blood of adventurers, buccaneers, soldiers and sailors, thirsty for fame and fortune. Those were the days when great galleons shuttled to and fro across the Atlantic; when whole families came out to settle and transform the islands into sugar plantations; when the west coast of Africa was raided for slaves to do the work on the plantations that no one else seemed to have strength to do.
Most of the islands took their way of life from more than one European country. Only Barbados has had no other mentors than the British. Jamaica, after a period of Spanish rule has been under British tutelage for three centuries. The other islands have been exposed to the influences of Spain, France and England. Many immigrants have come to these islands — Hindus, Muslims and Chinese.
The interchange of different styles of
GRENADA — The beautiful harbor at St. George's serves the Spice Island. Grenada is called the Spice Island because of the cocoa, nutmeg and clove that grow there.