PUBLIE RP1.ÏÏI8&.
Pa¡\[ Æmerica$% f World Airwave Teacher
November, 1952
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. IX No. 1
EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
By George Gardner
Some of the teachers and students who traveled abroad during the past summer for the dual purpose of having enjoyable vacations and at the same time learning more about the world so that they would be better equipped as teachers, or as members of other professions, are pictured for you in this issue of World Airways Teacher.
The picture of a group which traveled around the world is reproduced on this page as representing perhaps the most glamorous of the lot.
That point of view probably would be argued with considerabe spirit by the tour members in the photo on page two—members of a group which traveled to South America on a tour set up by the Division of Travel Service of the National Education Association.
The NEA group consisted of thirty-six educators, gathered together from all parts of the United States. Traveling via Flying Clipper in two separate groups, the tour members flew 11,832 miles and visited eight South American countries. Both groups started from Miami, and saw in succession Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay and Brazil.
Orientation Courses
As is customary on NEA tours, the groups had the advantage of orientation sessions in each of the capital cities visited. They were given opportunities to meet with teachers in those countries and to hear outstanding authorities explain the system of education, the economic structure and the social and cultural life of each country.
Highlights of the trip included a trip by motor launch in the Panama Canal, a visit to the Equatorial Monument outside Quito, Ficuador, visits to Cuzco and Machu Picchu in Peru, and dozens of other similar excursions.
The NEA Division of Travel Service now is working on plans for a similar tour in the summer of 1953, as well as for a variety of other tours, some international and some wholly within the U. S.
The group of round the world travelers pictured on Page One were members of a Lafayette College Study Tour which departed from San Francisco in early July, proceeded to Honolulu, Wake Island, Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, Burma, India, Pakistan, Iraq, Egypt, various countries in Europe and back to the United States with arrival in New York City.
Two study courses were included in the package, one on Asiatic civilization, and the other a seminar in social and economic problems, and college credit was offered for them. Professors from Lafayette accompanied the group, and the instruction was supplemented by lectures given by scholars at various points visited. Twenty-six per-
STUDY TOUR—The Lafayette College round-the-world group arrives at Honolulu and receives the traditional Hawaiian welcome.
sons made the tour, the price of which was $2,195 for transportation, rooms, meals, sightseeing and educational programs.
Lafayette had a study tour to South America as well, also for college credit, and nineteen students joined that tour.
These are but examples of hundreds of tours which were available to teachers and students last year by air, by surface, or in combination.
The Richelieu Institute, for example, organized a group for travel to Paris for study at The University of Paris, the Sor-bonne, University of Barcelona, University of Lille and the University of Toulouse. The forty-one members of this group traveled to Europe by steamship, and returned via The Rainbow, Flying Clipper Tourist Service.
Then, too, many teachers and students proceed on their own. No statistics on this are available, but the total number of persons who traveled by air to Europe last summer was in excess of 100,000. As many more went by surface, and it is reasonable to estimate that at least ten per cent of them were teachers. For several years tabulations of passport statistics have shown that between five and ten per cent of the passports issued go to teachers, afid it is obvious that the bulk of teacher travel takes place during the summer vacation. In 1951 passports were issued to 14,342 teachers, and
this was an increase of 43 per cent over the total for 1950. Travel experts predict that the figures for 1952 will show a similar increase, and possibly it may be even greater.
Reports to NCET
The mounting increase in interest is evidenced by reports which have been made recently to the National Council on Educational Travel.
It should be mentioned here that the National Council on Educational Travel, or NCET, has scheduled its fall meeting for November 7, 8, and 9, at the University of Denver. Any one having an interest in the subject of educational travel may attend the sessions, and anyone with such interest and the willingness to pay $5 annual dues may become a member. Correspondence may be addressed to Mr. Paul Kinsel, Executive Secretary of the NCET at 1201 Sixteenth St. N. W., Washington, D. C. Mr. Kinsel is Director of the Division of Travel of the National Education Association.
The two reports to NCET selected from among many interesting papers presented at recent meetings which we’d like to refer to here are one by Frank W. Hubbard, Director of the Research Division of the National Education Association and one by Nancy jean Wilcox of Cornell University.
When NCET met at the time of the American Association of School Adminis-(Continued on Page 2)