Pajv American
2	World Airways November, m2
(Continued from Page 1)
as reported by Dr. Hubbard, probably are those which prevail at present:
“1. On the average, they wanted summer trips of about W/2 weeks.
“2. Half of them would like to make a trip every third summer; one third wanted a trip every other year.
“3. Nearly 60 per cent reported that their boards of education would give them credit on travel as an evidence of professional growth.
“4. Nearly half of the group wanted college credit for educational travel.
“5. Most of them preferred to travel in the summer although a little more than 40 per cent would like to take 10-day trips during the Christmas holidays.”
trators convention in St. Louis in the spring, Dr. Hubbard reported that his division had asked 4,372 school systems to answer a detailed questionnaire on teacher personnel practices which included certain questions having to do with travel, and asking specifically if teachers were permitted to use educational travel in fulfilling requirements for professional growth. Dr. Hubbard said that out of 1,615 school systems replying to the questionnaire, one in five reported that educational travel was one of the ways in which teachers could meet these professional growth requirements.
The principle seemed to liave found greatest acceptance in middle size school systems. The tabulations showed that in cities between 10,000 and 100,000 nearly one third gave such recognition to educational travel. For larger cities the percentage was about twenty; for cities under 10,000 it was about 15 per cent.
In the same paper, Dr. Hubbard presented results of another survey addressed about five years ago directly to 150 class room teachers, and asking for their preferences as to types of travel preferred. As conditions have not changed greatly since that time, except that volume of travel has increased greatly, it is probable that these preferences,
LAFAYETTE GROUP—The tour to South America sponsored by Lafayette College flew down the west coast of the southern continent on Panagra’s El Interamericano.
NEA GROUP—Some of the teachers in the National Education Association Division of Travel Service tour of South America are pictured at Quito, Ecuador.
Nancy Wilcox’s study, which was research preparatory to a doctoral dissertation submitted to the graduate faculty of Cornell University, involved a survey of 102 colleges and universities which grant academic credit for travel, under certain stipulated circumstances.
Miss Wilcox visited most of these campuses in person, and interviewed those responsible for travel programs. Additional material was assembled through correspondence.
Some highlights from the Wilcox study:
Of the 102 colleges included in the study, eleven are in New York, nine in California, seven in Texas, five in Illinois.
For the type of study which Miss Wilcox listed under the heading “Location Groups,” meaning those traveling to a foreign country and earning credits through study at a university, there were nine which had location groups in Europe and six in Mexico.
A method of study travel developed by the University of Colorado is called “Travel, Stop and Study a Week.” For a short trip the group could return to campus for the week of study—on a longer one, at any convenient place, probably some other campus.
An “Exchange Pattern” has been used in some instances, where a group from one college travels to another and joins a group there for study. Then the two groups journey to the first college to complete the course.
The study obviously does not necessarily cover all colleges which will grant credit for travel, as this will be granted for certain types of travel even when the college does not sponsor a travel program. In the 102 colleges represented in her study, Miss Wilcox included only institutions having their own sponsored programs, and there may be others not located by her.
Paw A/uerlcaw World Alrwayw Teacher
Published, as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 195 2, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.