November, 1952
VIII. FOR DISCUSSION:
1.	What parts of our culture may be traced to the influence of Spain and Portugal?
2.	Why do the countries of Northern Europe seem to have made more progress than those of Southern Europe?
3.	What are Portugal’s potentialities as a center for travel? What changes would this make in its status?
4.	What changes have occurred in relationships between the United States and Spain and Portugal?
Bibliography
In Sunny Spain, K. L. Bates, American News Co.
Portugal, Wharf of Europe, Elizabeth Colman, Children’s Reading Service, 7-9.
Isabella, Young Queen of Spain, Mildred Criss, Dodd Mead & Co., 7-9
He Went With Magellan, L. A. Kent, Houghton Mifflin, 7-9.
He Went With Christopher Columbus, L. A. Kent, Houghton Mifflin, 7-9.
I Discover Columbus, Robert Lawson, American News Co., 7-9.
Cortez, the Conqueror, Newcomb, American News Co., 7-9.
Mediterranean Spotlights, Gatti, Scribners, 7-9.
Columbus Sails, C. W. Hodges, American News Co., 6.
Neighbors on Our Earth, Whipple & James, Macmillan, 6 up.
The Old World Past and Present, Camp-bell-Webb-Nida, Scott Foresman, 6 up.
Geography of Lands Overseas, McConnell, Rand McNally, 6 up.
Our Neighbors in America and Europe, Jansen & Allen, Ginn, 6 up.
The Old World & Its Gifts, Meyer-Hamer-Grisso, Follett, 6 up.
Foreign Lands and People, Smith, Winston, 6 up.
Old World Lands, Parker-Sorenson, Silver Burdett, 6 up.
Three Golden Oranges, Boggs & Davis, American News Co., 5-7.
Padre Parks, Davis, American News Co., 5-6.
Ship Boy With Columbus, Meadowcroft, American News Co., 4-6.
Bullfighter’s Son, Chambers, American News Co., 4-6.
Picture Tales From Spain, Sawyer, Lip-pincott, 4-6.
Spanish Twins, Lucy Perkins, American News Co., 3-5.
Story of Ferdinand, Munro Leaf, American News Co., 2-4.
GENERAL
Don Quixote, Cervantes.
Spanish Chest, Edna Brown.
Spanish Fairy Tales, J. M. Escamez.
Spanish Peggy, M. H. Catherwood.
Pan American World Airways Teacher, March-April 1949.
Pan American
World Afnmrs Tfachfr
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: European Travel Commission
Tourist Office of Spain and Portugal Box #331, Dept. O,
New York 10, N. Y.
Portuguese Travel Agency
176 W. Houston St., New York City
Consulate General of Portugal 630 Fifth Avenue, New York City
Spanish Tourist Office
485 Madison Avenue, New York City
Spanish Consulate General
515 Madison Avenue, New York City
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant Chairman—Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Because visual aids constitute such a prominent part of modern American education, we have added a new and unusual service, consisting of visual aids that relate to the topics treated. Included are commentaries and technical information on the visual aids, as well as the sources from which they may be obtained. Such guidance will be invaluable not only in relation to- the classroom study of this unit but also as a supplementary aid to other prescribed classroom material.
Motion Pictures
(1)	Spanish Children, 11 min., Sound—Encyclopedia Britannica Films (EBF), 351 W. 41 Street, New York City.
Depicts a visit with a farm family in Spain, showing a young boy and his father riding in their db-nkey cart to a city market place. It lays particular emphasis on the activities of the children of the family and concludes with the celebration of the little daughter’s birthday.
(2)	La Familia Sanchez, 11 min., Sound— EBF.
This is the story of the EBF film Spanish Children told in simple and slow-paced Spanish. As we watch real Spanish people going about their daily tasks, we listen to a description about what they are doing in the language that they speak. A 12-inch Spanish-speaking record of the text accompanies the film for practice and review.
(3)	Iberian Peninsula
Animation shows the dominant physical features of the peninsula. Then the film presents a survey of the life and character of the peninsula’s 34 million people, illustrating life in villages, farms and the capital cities of Madrid and Lisbon, and showing agriculture, mining and other industries.
(4)	Spain: The Land and the People, 10 min., Sound—Coronet Films, Chicago 1, Illinois
A film journey from Madrid in the north to the fertile river valleys in the south. Visits are made to the cities and villages and to Pedro Ybarras and his family.
(5)	Spanish Influences in the United States, 10 min., Sound—Coronet Films
Historic locales from Florida to California document this record of our Spanish cultural heritage. Dolores and Don study America and find that the Spaniards influenced many aspects of our own culture.
(6)	Spanish Gypsies, 10 min., Sound—A. F. Films, 1600 Broadway, New York City
A gypsy festival offers an opportunity to see a series of exciting flamenco folk dances and songs performed by a group of outstanding artists. Filmed in a grotto- in Sacro-Monte, near Granada, this short has the stamp of authenticity upon it—an unusual and absorbing picture. Produced by Pierre Braunberger.
(7)	Mozart and Barrios on Six Strings, 10 min., Sound—A. F. Films
Abel Carlevano, a former pupil of Andre Segovia, offers a brilliant recital on the guitar, the favorite instrument of Spain. The film shows the possibilities of the guitar with interesting shots of the action of the fingers, the delightful artistry of the performer, and the beauty of the performance.
(8)	Hablados en Castellano—Series. This series of sound travel films of Spain were produced by Hoffberg Productions, Inc., 362 West 44th Street, New York 18, N. Y.
The narration is in Spanish with no English titles. Many aspects of Spanish life are portrayed—among them,: songs, dances, and customs.
The series include:
Bellezas Del Norte
La Puerta Ibérica
Panoramas Españoles
Pasaje Al Mundo Nuevo
Poemas Y Canciones de Andalucía
(9)	In Old Madrid, 10 min., Sound—James A. Fitzpatrick’s Travel Pictures. 8624 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 46, Calif.
Produced and narrated by James A. Fitzpatrick. Re-edited and rerecorded in 1950. This film on the capital of Spain depicts a visit to all the highlights of interest, among them: the Señoritas, the bull market, and the old Royal Palace.
Filmstrips
(1)	Spain—The Land and Its People 43 frames—captions—color
Society for Visual Education, 1345 W. Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Shows customs, activities and interests of the people as well as architecture, characteristic landscapes and industries. Maps show physical features and location of cities.
(2)	We Visit Spain
22 frames—captions—color Eyegate House, 330 West 42nd Street, New York.
Scenes of the people, buildings, industries, kinds of work, and points of interest are presented. These help to introduce facts about the country.