Pa/v Ahíeríca/v
THE IBERIAN PENINSULA
(Spain and Portugal)
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	PROBLEM : What happened to make the once powerful nations of Spain and Portugal lose their places as leading nations of the world?
1.1	Reasons for Selection:
1.	The story of Columbus has been told over and over. Students know that Columbus claimed the land he found for Spain.
2.	When Columbus was successful Spain sent many other men to explore new lands. They also claimed their findings for Spain.
3.	Portugal furnished money for explorers too. They found and claimed land for Portugal.
4.	Through the years that followed these countries lost one colony after another until their colonial strength was greatly diminished. Why?
5.	Lately we see these countries being mentioned over and over in Current Events. What changes are taking place?
6.	In studying about the United Nations we find Spain and Portugal are not members. Why?
7.	The airplane has brought us closer to many lands. The number of tourists in Spain and Portugal this year increased substantially. What has brought this about ?
2.	PROBABLE DURATION : 3 weeks
3.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT
3.1	Approach:
1.	A review of the story of Columbus would lead to stories of the many other explorers sent out by Spain and Portugal.
2.	On a map of the world the colonies founded by Spanish and Portuguese explorers could be noted. This would show how powerful these nations were long ago.
3.	Talk about the acquisition of territory by the United States. Lands we received as a result of the Spanish American War could
be discussed. Status of Spain before and after that event noted.
4.	Pictures of bullfighting. Discussion of this as a favorite sport of Spain.
5.	Products made of cork. Portugal, the land from which most of it comes.
6.	Read poem “Columbus” by Joaquin Miller.
7.	Strip film or movie on Spain and Portugal, today and yesterday.
3.2 Subsidiary Problems :
1.	Why did other nations surpass Spain and Portugal?
2.	What are Spain and Portugal doing to regain their places today?
3.	Why does their geographical position make Spain and Portugal important to the United States today ?
4.	What do Spain and Portugal produce in abundance which can be traded with the United States?
5.	What places of interest would you want tO' see if you made a visit to Spain and Portugal?
6.	What have these countries contributed to the culture of the United States?
4.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
4.1 Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:
Location of countries, important cities, rivers, mountains; surface features, climatic condit.ons, life and customs, population, education and culture, industries and products, exports and imports, famous places, important people, government, historical background, relations with the United States, current events. (Social Studies material will be found in the pages following.)
2.	Language Arts :
a. New Words—listed on last page. Increase your vocabulary. Look up other words when you are not sure of their meanings. Many Spanish
words which have become practically a part of our speech such as : adiós, manana, señor, señorita, fiesta, siesta, gracias, etc.
b.	Spelling—-words that come from working out the unit.
c.	Oral communication—interviewing people, describing one of the places to visit, giving a report, asking questions, planning a trip, reviewing a picture or a story, telling about a bull fight, meeting in committee, evaluating facts and reports, acting in a dramatization.
d.	Written communication—letters asking for information, reports, writing skits to be presented, making a plan for a vacation in Spain and Portugal, writing on topics of children’s choice such as: a bull fight in Madrid, the M'osque in Cordoba, the Moors, the ancient city of Cadiz, the fruit orchards of Valencia, cork-oak trees in Portugal, why it is called “Sunny Spain”, the gypsies of Granada, the costumes, the music of Spain and Portugal.
e.	Literature—-Cervantes’ “D o n Quixote”, “Dream of Columbus” by D.A. McCarthy, “The Things That Haven’t Been Done Before” by E.A. Guest. Books listed in Bibliography in this issue.
3.	Science :
Study of cork, Mediterranean climate, “extreme” climate, contrasts in topography, study of flight, rich deposits of minerals, study about cobalt, quicksilver, sulphate, phosphates, etc., and their uses.
4.	Health :
Types of food, meal menus, siesta habit, late meal hours, folk dances, native sports.
5.	Music:
Traditional songs and folk music, interpretive music, castanets, and string music.
(Continued on Page 13)