November, 1952
Pan AMFRfCAiv
World A/rhavs Teacher
11
and the Island of Macao ; and in Oceania— the eastern portion of the Island of Timor.
| Each territory is governed by an appointive
'Governor assisted by a local Advisory Assembly. The exports of these colonies are mostly agricultural but in many areas there are gold, diamond and other mineral mines. This colonial empire of over 803,000 square miles and with more than 10,800,000 inhabitants is outranked only by those of England and France.
During the Twentieth Century both Spain and Portugal have been struggling to secure economic security for their people. The Portuguese king was overthrown in 1910 and a republican form of government established. The president is Marshal Antonio Oscar de Fragoso' Carmona. Actually, the country is a dictatorship under Premier Antonio de Oliveira Salazar. A Spanish republic was formed in 1931 but political disagreements finally culminated in a civil war which lasted from 1936 to 1939. Spain is also a dictatorship, under General Francisco Franco.
The Present
Regardless of the form of government in both nations, Spain and Portugal are extremely important to the United States on a purely geographical basis. As long as Russian imperialism threatens the security of Europe it is vital that the Iberian Peninsula which represents an important land base on the European Continent does not become enemy territory. This is the reason the United States Government has already loaned Spain quantities of money and has earmarked other funds for that country to insure its greater economic stability. Portugal is among the sixteen Western European nations who accepted the Marshall Plan but the Portuguese Government declined financial aid in the first year of the program’s operation.
Portugal’s empire is also an asset to our security. Because of it the nation has, dispersed throughout the world in convenient locations, cities and islands which could serve admirably as bases for international air transport. Only Great Britain of all other nations is better supplied with such strategic, potential bases. The United States, in contrast, has relatively few potential bases and must negotiate with other nations for the use of foreign facilities. In 1930, a Franco-Portuguese aviation company obtained a thirty year concession for the exploitation of commercial aviation within Portugal and a monopoly of air routes between that country and its colonies.
Spain’s Balance Sheet
Although Spain is one of the largest countries in Europe, its surface characteristics have made it one of the most difficult to develop. The nation’s 190,000 square miles, about equal to one-and-a-half times the area of the state of New Mexico, are crossed alternately by mountains and river valleys. In fact, after Switzerland, Spain is the most mountainous country on the Continent, with an average altitude of two thousand feet and some of Europe’s highest ranges. The rugged terrain makes internal transportation long and difficult and actually, more trade goes by sea from city to city along the coast than across the interior.
Agricultural, garden and forest products dominate the economic life of the country.
TYPICAL HOME—Residences customarily are adorned with tiles in Portugal, as in In Spain the architecture is similar.
this photo.
Together with extensive mineral and water power resources, they form the basis for industrial development. Wheat, barley, oats, rye, olives, grapes, lemons, oranges and other fruits, onions, almonds, flax, hemp, pulse* and cork are all abundant. Beneath the surface of the earth are some of the world’s richest deposits of cobalt, quicksilver, silver, sulphate, soda, sulphur, phosphates, iron, copper, zinc and coal, some of them largely unexploited. The fact that so much of the mineral wealth of Spain is un-exploited and therefore unknown, is still another reason for worldwide interest in the nation.
Bilbao', located in the northeastern section of the country, is the center of an iron industry as the hills behind the town are composed almost entirely of iron ore. Almost everything made of steel is manufactured at Bilbao, especially ships. The port is the most important on the Bay of Biscay and handles the bulk of the sea trade between Spain and Northern Europe. The north central area of the country is rich in coal which is carried to the northern port of Gijon and shipped from there all around the coasts. At the foot of northern mountains are green fields, streams and cattle. This area supplies the rest of the country with milk, butter and cheese. Elsewhere, sheep and goats are more numerous than cattle, the goats being valued for their milk. Spanish Merino sheep are noted the world over for their excellent wool. Horses and mules are also raised and pigs thrive on the acorns of the many oak trees.
In the northwestern corner of Spain, jutting out over Portugal, is a fertile area cut off from the rest of the country by mountains. Unable to send its products to markets in other parts of Spain, the region is like a
* Pulse are peas, beans, lentils, etc.
self-supporting island. Its people speak a language half-way between Spanish and Portuguese. The North Atlantic coast has deep fjord-like harbors and two of its ports, Caruna and Ferrol, were renowned as the chief naval bases of Spain at the time of its greatest power. Today, Viego, another port, is better known as a stopping point for most liners sailing from South America to Europe.
The southeastern section of Spain has become famous the world over through the many romantic legends written about the region. This section has always been the richest agricultural area of Spain and irrigation on the Gualquivir River promises to increase its productivity even further. Its three best known cities, Seville, Granada and Cordoba, were built by the Moors who inhabited Spain early in its history. Seville is one of the largest grain exporting ports in Europe with wheat playing a primary role. It has a large tobacco and cigar factory, iron foundries, machine shops and manufactures of chocolate, soap, perfumes, beverages, corks, silks and musical instruments. In addition to wheat other exports are iron ore, lead, copper, mercury and other minerals, oranges, olives and olive oil, cork, grains and wine. Further up the Quadalquivir River is Cordoba, which was celebrated at one time for its manufacture of goat leather. Today its manufactures include silver filigree, silk fabrics and cloth and paper. Iron is mined in the vicinity. Granada, situated in the south central part of the country, is famous for its Alhambra, a former fortress and palace and one of the finest examples of Moorish architecture in the world. Today the city is a live and growing community.
Cadiz, situated on the South Atlantic coast, lies sixty miles north of Gibraltar. The city projects five miles into the sea and