Pan American
Wo rid Aromrs Teacher
November, 1952
PAA LOAD EVENT AT THE 21ST NATIONAL A.M.A. MODEL AIRPLANE MEET
PAA Load Event is a competition for model aircraft, sponsored by Pan American World Airways, in which the miniature airplanes carry payload, just as actual airplanes carry passengers, mail and cargo, or payload of other types such as insecticide for crop dusting, fire-fighting equipment or military load.
This event, included annually in major model meets throughout the country, and in a number of countries abroad, is intended to pose for the model airplane designer, builder and flyer some of the same problems that are faced by the designers and operators of real aircraft.
For modeling, the payload consists of a dummy “occupant” (in some cases more than one) of specified size and weight—this payload varying for models of different size and power classes. There also is a special contest, known as Model Clipper Cargo, in which a dummy occupant of standard size is required—plus cargo. In this category, the winner is the contestant carrying the largest amount of cargo and “delivering” it safely.
During the summer of 1952 PAA Load Events were sponsored at 23 contests in the United States, and there were others in England, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.
For U. S. contestants the peak of activity was reached at the National A.M.A. Model Airplane Meet, held this year at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Los Alamitos, Calif, with the National Exchange Clubs, the U. S. Navy and the Academy of Model Aeronautics (A.M.A.) as sponsors. Upward of 800 contestants were entered this year at the NATS, and approximately half of them registered for one or more categories of
PAA Load Event. All of the pictures on this page were taken at Los Alamitos.
The contest basically is for free flight gas models, and has been conducted for Class U>A, Class A and Class B models. (Classes are governed by engine horsepower.) It has been conducted also on an experimental basis for control line models and for rubber powered models. Class A gas powered has proved the most popular category to date.
PAA Load Event was introduced in 1948 at The Nationals held that year at the U. S. Naval Air Station at Olathe, Kansas. The winner in 1948 was Herb Kothe, then of Omaha, Nebr., and a college Freshman. Now an aeronautical engineer employed by
PAYLOAD AT THE NATS—Top: The flight area for PAA Load Event. Right: Parnell Schoenky of Kirkwood, Mo. with Clipper Cargo model. Lower Right: Richard Sladek of San Diego and Herb Kothe of Grand Prairie, Tex. with Navy timer Lester Small. Lower Left: Dennis Aleshire of Pasadena with Free Flight Contest Director Sal Taibi.
an aircraft manufacturer, he is still an ardent modeler, and was a first place winner at the 1951 NATS. The picture in the lower right includes Herb Kothe (middle of picture) with his model which won in 1948 and again in 1951. He competed this year in Class B and in Model Clipper Cargo, but was not a winner this time.