Pan AMMfCAN
World Airways Teacher___________________November, 1952
THE ECONOMIES of SPAIN and PORTUGAL
By Lou A. Phillips
10
14th century Gothic Igreja do Carmo are still standing. The church of Nossa Senhora ■da Conceiçao has an outstanding Manueline façade. The Palacio das Cortes housing the Parliament, is a 16th century Benedictine monastery; the famous Torre de Belem was built in 1520 to protect shipping.
The finest piece of church architecture in Portugal (excepting the monasteries of Alcobaça and Batalha) is the Convento dos Jeronymos, a Hieronymite convent and church built in 1499 to commemorate the discovery by Vasco da Gama of the sea-route to India. It was designed and built of white limestone by Joao de Castilho, the greatest of Manueline architects. In the late eighteenth century, Carvalho, the great architect, did much to modernize the capital in keeping with the progressive ideas of the Marques de Pombal, one of Europe’s greatest statesmen.
Visitors to Portugal and Madeira are not required to have visas to enter the country. There are no restrictions on the amount of currency that visitors may bring in or take out with them. Each tourist is permitted two cartons of cigarettes and ten rolls of film for his personal use, and cameras may be brought in freely.
Coimbra
Coimbra, one of the most ancient of the great European university towns, has been a center of scholarship and learning since the 13th century. Known to the Romans as Aeminium, Coimbra was Portugal’s capital during the reigns of the first kings and was the center of the intellectual life of the day.
Situated in the center of Portugal, Coimbra is placed high on a mountain overlooking the river Mondego. No mere monument to the past, Coimbra is now, as it was many centuries ago, a living expression of the great traditions of Portuguese culture.
The beginnings of the university date from 1288 when Dom Dionisio, King of Portugal, convoked a Congress of Prelates which petitioned permission from Pope Nicholas IV to found a university. The request was granted in 1290 and, in the. same year, the university was inaugurated in Lisbon. Courses in Grammar, Logic, Canon Law, and Medicine were offered. Later, the university was moved to Coimbra and courses given in private dwellings while the College of San Pablo was being built.
The site of the university shifted between Lisbon and Coimbra several times. In 1537 Dom Joao III transferred it for the last time to Coimbra where it has remained ever since.
Today the University of Coimbra consists of five faculties : Theology, Law, Medicine, Mathematics and Philosophy. It has vast museums and laboratories, a splendid library of several hundred thousand volumes, priceless manuscripts and rare books, and research projects on an extensive scale. In connection wdth the medical faculty there are several regular hospitals. The mathematics faculty maintains an observatory which gives an excellent view of the entire valley of the Mondego.
Other educational establishments connected with the University of Coimbra are the Royal College of Arts, scientific and literary institutes and a seminary.
Both Spain and Portugal were once great powers on the European Continent and in the World. Both saw their influence on world events decline while that of other nations rose to eclipse them. Today, both face serious domestic problems in their efforts to regain a greater degree of prosperity for their people. Because of geographical reasons both are extremely important to the United States.
Until the Twelfth Century, Spain and Portugal formed one nation, occupying the southwestern peninsula of Europe. Bordered on the north by the Bay of Biscay, on the west by the Atlantic Ocean, on the east by the Mediterranean Sea, and separated from France by the high Pyrenees Mountains, they seemed like an island, aloof from the rest of the Continent. The Iberian Peninsula, as the land is sometimes called, is only about twenty miles from Africa at Tarifa, Spain’s most southerly town on the Straits of Gibraltar.
The Past
During the Twelfth Century, when the peninsula was divided into a number of kingdoms, Portugal, then a small dependency, became independent. During the latter half of the Fourteenth and beginning of the Fifteenth Centuries, she built a great commercial empire. Portuguese navigators explored the west coast of Africa, finally sailing around that Continent’s southern tip to India making Portugal mistress of those southern and eastern seas. Her colonial empire included areas on the Indian Sub-Continent, in the East Indies and the largest country in South'Africa, Brazil.
By 1492, the year Columbus discovered
America (with the help of Spain), all of the Spanish kingdoms were united. During the Sixteenth Century, Spain became one of the great powers of the World. Her infantry was invincible in Europe, Portugal was conquered, and the Spanish fleet was supreme in the Mediterranean. All of America was nominally hers, and many of the countries of the Caribbean, Central and South America were overcome and settled. This was the peak of Spanish power. During the next two centuries, due to the folly of her rulers, one blow after another fell on Spain. Portugal revolted and once again became free. She was stripped of her possessions in the Netherlands and southern Italy and lost Gibraltar to the British. Most of the Spanish colonies on the mainland of America won their independence and Cuba, Puerto Rico and the Philippines were lost. Today, the only colonial possessions of Spain are Rio de Oro, Spanish Guiana and a Spanish Zone in Morocco on the African Continent; the Canary Islands in the Atlantic; and the Balearic Isles in the Mediterranean Sea.
Although Portugal did regain her freedom from Spain, she never again recovered her former position as one of the European powers. During the Eighteenth Century a severe economic blow resulted from a terrible earthquake which killed 40,000 people in Lisbon. In addition, her most important colony, Brazil, became independent in 1825. However, in contrast with Spain, Portugal still holds great parts of her territorial discoveries. She has possessions in Africa— Guiana, Angola, Mozambique, the Cape Verde Islands and the Islands of Principe and S. Tome; in Asia—Portuguese India
WINDMILL—This one is in Portugal where it is called “moinho de vento”, but prob ably is similar to the windmill which Don Quixote engaged in combat.