Pan American
Wohld Airways Teacher	November, 1952
YOU WILL LIKE SPAIN
By Enrique Portes
South of the Pyrenees, which can be crossed by roads through only ten passes, lies a square-shaped peninsula, larger than France, nearly twice the size of the British Isles. That peninsula could neatly fit into the State of Texas, and although one geographical unit, it is politically divided into two nations, Spain and Portugal. Spain, the larger of the two, covers a territory six times that of Portugal and offers every possible climate and geographical condition.
Spain has been the source of inspiration for centuries. Foreigners have never ceased to write about her. Gibbon called Spain “the opulent country.” For Strabo, one of the first travelers, the Ancients located the Elysian Fields—the abode of the blessed after death—in Andalusia. “There’s a castle in Spain, very charming to see,” wrote Godfrey Saxe.
In the XVIII century Joseph Addison was just as enthusiastic: “Could I transport myself with a wish from one country to another, I should choose to pass my winter in Spain.” The Spaniards themselves were not less devoted.
For Alfonso the Learned, Spain was “like the Paradise of God.” Father Mariana praised the soil and climate of Spain without discretion, and scores of poets throughout the centuries have sung the beauty, charm, grace and achievements of the Spanish nation.
Spain, of course, is neither an “opulent” nor a poor country, but one highly favored by nature in some aspects and castigated in others. You can go in a few hours from regions of perpetual snow and desert-like plateaus to lands scented with orange blossoms and covered with graceful palm trees. This variety in climate and geographical conditions explains the difference in character, physical aspect and habits of Spaniards. The shrewd Galician, the sturdy Basque, the obstinate Aragonese, the proud Castilian, the passionate Andalusian and the industrious Catalan may differ; nevertheless they have in common some fundamental characteristics which constitute a strong national spirit, the most deep-rooted: religion. Seven centuries of Holy Wars against the infidels, the Counter-Reformation and mysticism are factors that have contributed to make Spain a country in which religious sentiment plays a unique part.
More than Spanish
There are many truisms—vapid, flavorless and hackneyed truths—which must be dispelled before you can understand Spanish life. Spaniards are just as average as you and I. Here and there you will find, of course, certain features and traits which are peculiarly theirs; well, those characteristics account for the interest which Spain arouses in you.
In my recent visit to Spain I was really overwhelmed by the courtesy and kindness of the people. The taxi driver, the bus conductor, the shoe-shine boy, the barber, the fruit vendor—everybody had a nice word and a smile for you. As soon as I arrived in Spain I began to discover that many old customs have their justification. The old one
of afternoon siestas is a reality just as café life is. These customs have their explanations and fit in with Spaniards’ daily routine and do not necessarily interfere with work.
Siestas are not so much a lazy habit as an indispensable institution—and you are a wise person if you take one in Spain. Spaniards are late-eaters, probably because of the climate. Yet workers do not get up any later in the morning than workers in any other southern European country. Factories open at eight in the morning, offices at nine. But lunch is at two o’clock and dinner rarely before 10 p.m. Obviously, bed time is very late, and without an hour or so of siesta during the hottest part of the day, Spaniards would not live to be old men. Surprisingly enough, few people sleep so little as Spaniards.
Do Spaniards waste their time in coffee houses? Nothing could be more inaccurate than the belief in an assertion of this kind. To the contrary, they save time. A coffee house in Spain is a private office, a reception room, a club. A writer settles himself in his own favorite café and does his work there. A businessman makes his appointment at his café, or a lawyer talks his case with his client there. Doctors, painters, newspapermen meet daily at their chosen café to discuss business and exchange last-minute news concerning their professions.
One day in Madrid I entered a café with my wife and sat at a table. The waiter, very politely, informed me that every table was reserved. “Where is the sign?” I inquired.
“Señor,” the waiter replied, “for many years these tables have been used by the same people. You see, they hold their tertulia (a gregarious chat) at eleven.” The waiters know their customers by name and hold mail and messages for them, where there is a phone handy. And all these services come to no more than the price of a cup of coffee per day plus a small tip to the waiter who supplies them with fresh glasses of water no matter how long the clients stay.
Tradition alive
Scores of books have been written on the subject of the traditional customs of Spain. Anywhere you will find many manifestations —very colorful indeed—of Spanish life. These people are proud of their customs. They go on a pilgrimage really believing that they are obtaining spiritual benefit. Their tremendous sincerity gives vitality to the thousands of romerías, verbenas, ferias, processions, and Passion Plays which occur all over the country and the year round.
Of course, the motive power behind most of these forms of amusements is religious, but you should not be discouraged by the idea that the atmosphere will be heavily ecclesiastical. Romería, for instance, which means “a picnic excursion to some shrine or beauty spot” is something unique. The most famous romeria is that of “El Rocío.” It takes place in the southern province of Huelva, in the village of Almonte where a church contains a statue of St. Mary, believed to have miraculous powers.
For a week before Pentecost the roads are crowded with men on horse-back, escorting covered wagons garlanded with flowers, Manila shawls and' paper streamers, and containing the women-folk. As they make
FOLK DANCES—In Spain the national dances, and the music that goes with them, may be seen and heard every day and night. The photo shows an impromptu performance on a village street. More elaborate performances may be attended in the theaters.