Pajv American
November, 1952	AIRWAYS
PORTUGAL, VISITORS’ UTOPIA
By Michael Otero *
Meet the Spaniards in Spain
As a modern traveler you can reach Spain a few hours after you leave the United States. The new giant of the sky—the Pan American Clipper—takes you to Spain after short stops at the Azores and Lisbon. Custom authorities are courteous and efficient. At the airport you are through in no time. At Madrid, Barcelona or Sevilla—anywhere for that matter—everybody wants to help you.
Spaniards want you to have a good impression everywhere. They want you to remember them and to return to Spain some day. They are conscious of their dignity and guard jealously their sense of honesty.
At the railroad station in Toledo a little old man picked up our suitcase to take it to the hotel. “Don’t lose it,” said my wife as she would say it to any bell-boy in New York or Chicago, attaching no importance to her remarks. “Señora,” answered the little old man, “I’m poor but honest.”
In Madrid I witnessed the indignation of more than twenty Madrileños when they learned that a shoe-shine boy had charged an American twenty pesetas (about half a dollar) for a shine. How could that shoe-shine boy disgrace the reputation of the city? What would the visitor think of the people, that all were thieves? In a moment, the shoe-shine boy was surrounded, forced to return 18 pesetas (a shoe shine costs 2), and taken to jail by the police.
One thing is clear in my mind—one trip to Spain is not enough. You’ll feel the same way after your first visit-—there is so much to learn which is hidden under the colorful face of Spain. There are so many things to enjoy in Spain. Meet the Spaniards in their country—you will like Spain.
Portugal, one of the few unspoiled corners of Europe remaining, is a visitor’s Utopia which each year draws more and more Americans to voyages of discovery. Magnificent scenery, a warm Mediterranean coast line and hundreds of historic monuments offer travelers an opportunity to relax in the sun or go sightseeing.
Owing to its stable economy, Portugal is well equipped to welcome tourists. Food is plentiful, and inexpensive. Accommodations for tourists are excellent in the larger1 cities. First class hotels offer rooms with bath for as little as $4 a day including three meals. For about $3 a person a party can enjoy an evening of dancing, entertainment and drinks at Lisbon’s most exclusive niteries.
There are no shortages, no rationing, no austerity programs in Portugal. The shops are well stocked and the favorable rates of exchange make it possible for tourists to buy freely the embroideries, ceramics, and fine jewelry which are specialties of the country.
A gleaming panorama of pink, white, green, and yellow buildings, Lisbon is an unusual combination of the old and the new. Modern office buildings and apartment houses stand beside majestic 12th century churches and cloisters and the newest model automobiles mix with horse-drawn carts on the spacious streets. To the visitor in search of historical interest, Lisbon presents an inexhaustible supply of museums and monuments which link the old world with the new.
The climate of Portugal makes it particularly attractive to the visitor. The temperature varies from an average of 50 degrees in winter to 70 degrees in summer and rainfall is moderate. Warmed by the Gulf Stream, the coast line is almost semi-tropical in its vegetation, while 100 miles away the peaks of the Estrela range are snow-capped the year around.
In the high peaks of the Serra da Estrela, Portugal’s central mountain range, a winter resort paradise has been opened to ski enthusiasts. Although only about 80 miles from the sunny beach of Figueira da Foz, the snow-capped Estrela mountains rise 6,406 feet.
In Portugal, a long term program has been initiated which has restored the small wayside inns to their place in the traveler’s itinerary. Pousadas, small informal guest houses, have been built under the direction of the Secretariado Nacional da Informacao.
Erected in key locations just off the major highways, there are now eight of these pousadas in operation.
Lisbon, long known as “the gateway to Europe,” is the hub of many airlines from all parts of the world. Almost every world capital can be easily reached by air service from Lisbon.
Lisbon’s great natural harbor in the river Tagus has been one of Europe’s great seaports for centuries. Today steamship lines from all parts of the world dock in this historic port.
Lisbon
Lisbon, ancient capital of Portugal and the westernmost metropolis of Europe, is considered one of the most beautiful cities in the world. Built on terraces up the sides of a range of low hills, filled with countless parks and gardens, houses of light pastel shades, and fronting the estuary formed by the Tagus as it empties into- the Atlantic, it provides a spectacle which is equalled in beauty only by the famous approaches from the sea to Naples and Istanbul. The estuary, seven miles wide and eleven miles long, brings the Atlantic, tranquil and cooling, to the very streets of Lisbon. The city follows both sides of the estuary almost its entire length and reaches inland from the sea for more than four miles. From the air Lisbon seems as if it were carved in a setting of water.
The very name, “Lisbon,” is illustrative of the city’s rich historical past. Named OLISIPPO in ancient times after Ulysses (according to legend) it was modified by the Moors into AL OS HUN A, then into Lish-buna and finally into Lisboa.
Architecture through the ages can be seen in Lisbon. The late Renaissance church of Sao Roque contains two beautiful chapels from the 18th century, one of painted tiles, the other of colored marble brought from Rome with beautiful mosaics and lapis lazuli pillars. The apse and pillared aisles of the
* Dr. Otero is the founder of the Richelieu Institute, which has organized Summer Schools for Americans in universities in France, Spain and Portugal with the permission and under the auspices of the Ministries of Education of the respective countries. The article on Portugal is copyrighted by the Richelieu Institute.
ALHAMBRA—In Granada, Spain, is the Alhambra, a palace and fortress built years ago by the Arabs. One of its best known features is the Court of the Lions shown in this picture.