12
is almost surrounded by wate^. It is enclosed by walls of great breadth and height and has a fine harbor. Its trade was once much more intensive but it still handles considerable quantities of sherry, salt, lead ore, olive oil and fruits. Cadiz is one of the most ancient cities in Europe but a Sixteenth Century fire robbed it of its old buildings. All over the southeastern région of Spain, semi-tropical fruits including figs and dates are grown. Olives thrive and nuts are an important crop. Mulberry trees encouraged a silk industry. The greatest wealth of the area however, lies in its wonderful wines and grapes. Herds of cattle roam the uplands between the mountains and the area has many bull ranges where fighting bulls are raised for the arena. The best bullfighters of Spain come from the southeast. Copper is also mined in the region.
The east coast of Spain is noted for its fruit, with melons, peaches and oranges grown all the way from Cartagena to Valencia. Through irrigation, a Moorish development, the plain of Valencia has been made one of the most fertile spots in Europe and the city’s orange groves are world famous. Most of the land is divided into tiny farms of a few acres each but every farm can support a family for the land bears three or four crops annually. Rice, wheat and vegetables with some sugar cane and cotton are the principal farm crops.
Cartagena, located on a bay of the Mediterranean Sea, is the principal naval harbor and arsenal of Spain. Gold and silver mines are located in the surrounding area. Mining and smelting are important industries and the chief exports are iron, copper, lead, sulphur, zinc, wine, fruit and grain. Valencia, at the mouth of the Guadalviar
Pan American
World	Am waysTeacheb
River, has one of the most secure harbors on the Mediterranean coast. Its chief exports are rice, melons, oranges and other fruits, green and dried wines, raw and spun silks and an excellent quality of olive oil. The industries of the city include tobacco manufacturing, silk spinning and hemp and linen weaving. There are also manufactures of velvet, felt gloves, fans, iron and bronze ware, leather goods, glazed pottery and glazed bricks known as azulejos.
Further north on the Mediterranean Sea is Barcelona, the nation’s greatest port and largest city. Although it is situated in the midst of a district as luxuriant as a garden, it is the most important manufacturing city of Spain. It is divided into two parts, the old town and the new town, by the Rambla, a river bed, which has been made into a promenade. The streets of the old town forming the northwest division are crooked and narrow. The buildings are chiefly of brick, four or five stories high with flat roofs. Those of the new town are much more modern in appearance and are spacious. The city’s staple imports are raw cotton, coffee and sugar and other colonial produce in addition to wheat, spirits, timber, saltfish, hides, iron and coal. Its export trade is largely confined to fruits, vegetables and wine.
Madrid, situated on a high plateau approximately in the center of Spain, has been the capital of the country for centuries. During the Civil War however, it was temporarily abandoned due to constant attacks. In most respects Madrid is a modern city although it has managed to retain some medieval atmosphere. It has modern buildings, transportation facilities and public utilities in addition to beautiful parks and
November, 1952
boulevards. The educational center of the nation, its University, normally has an enrollment of about 5,000 students. In recent years, it has grown in importance as an industrial city as well. Among its manufactured products are tobacco goods, leather goods, chemicals and perfumes.
As far as industrial development in general is concerned Spain only needs to take advantage of her natural resources in the way of minerals and water power to assume an important place among the progressive nations. The nation ended 1951 in better economic condition than she expected earlier in the year, with farm production 30% higher than the 1950 average, and industry also showing an upward trend. Spain however is still a long way from the pre-Civil War level of 1936. She expects a bumper wheat harvest next year and the United States has already granted or earmarked additional loans. Production has also increased in such commodities as rice, corn, barley, rye, oranges, grapes and olives. This means that Spanish imports of foodstuffs will be greatly reduced thus helping to balance the nation’s economy. The agricultural outlook is so promising that the Government has already announced that it would increase the ration of bread and oil, and relax grain controls over production, transportation and marketing which have caused considerable irritation among the farmers.
The Portuguese Picture
Although there are no natural barriers between Spain and Portugal, as between Spain and France, the character of the landscape changes completely when the frontier is crossed. Portugal covers 34,254 square miles, about half the area of the state of North Dakota. It has a coastline of 465 miles, with relatively numerous harbors, the most important being those of Lisbon, Oporto and Setubal. A large part of the interior of the country is mountainous. Throughout the country, tropical plants grow side by side with those of Northern European countries—pines, chestnuts, cork, oaks, palms, cactus and mimosas.
In the northern section of the country every inch of arable land is planted with such crops as wheat, corn, rye, potatoes, oats and beans. Central Portugal is a garden of terraced vineyards. The nation’s most important fruit is the grape from which the country’s famous port wine is made. The wine gets its name from Oporto, the port from which it is shipped. Olives, figs, oranges, lemons and other Mediterranean fruits are grown in the south where cork oaks are also abundant. About one-third of the land is devoted to the raising of cereals. Great numbers of cattle, sheep, goats and hogs are raised. Fish, next to wine, is the most important product of export and is confined mostly to tuna and sardine canning.
About one-fourth of the land is forested, the most important trees being the cork and oak. There are also chestnut groves. Crude cork is one of the nation’s most important products of export, and the production of resin and turpentine is also an important industry. Hogs are fattened on oak acorns. Portugal possesses considerable mineral wealth, but for want of electric power and cheap transportation valuable mines remain unworked. At present there are only a little over 2,000 miles of railway and 9,000 miles
FRAGATA—The Portuguese call a barge a “fragata”. (Note the similarity to the English term frigate, now applied to certain small Naval vessels, but originally a light vessel propelled by oars or sails.) It is a working vessel, but the Portuguese feel it is appropriate to have attractive decorations.