Paiv American
World Airways Teacher	November, 1952
“Do they like to hear piropos?” Why not? What woman does not like to be complimented? “Is the piropo anything of the past?” Not at all. Older than the castles of Spain is the custom of piropos, extemporaneous, neatly worded tributes paid to a pretty girl on the street.
I was told that piropos were outlawed in 1926 when an angry husband shot a piropist on a main street in Madrid. The practice persisted. Not long ago a booklet came out in defense of the piropo, the classic one—a compliment which asks for nothing in return, a lovely phrase in reverence to a lovely woman—as opposed to the unsavory compliment.
Some of the classic piropos, according to one of my Spanish friends, run this way: “When you were born a piece of heaven fell. When you die, heaven will be patched up again.” And this one: “What a girl! If you swam in the Arctic Ocean the water would boil.” Or this other: “What a beauty! Blessed be your father, your mother and your entire family for bringing you to the world.” Long live the piropo.
Heart of Spain
Madrid is not only the geographical center of Spain but also the central point of all communications. The old and the new mingle gracefully in the Spanish capital. The new part is one of beautiful broad avenues, clean well-paved streets, green promenades, plazas and parks with public gardens decorated with fountains. Everywhere flowers grow in abundance. In the old part of Madrid you find narrow streets, ancient buildings, antique plazas and quaint patios. “La Castellana”—now called “Generalissimo”-—is a magnificent residence street. The Puerta del Sol, for all practical purposes, is the heart of Madrid; ten streets end there. “La Gran Via”—now called “José Antonio”—might well be Madrid’s Fifth Avenue.
The people of Madrid seem to live in the streets. They are indeed a fine example of a race that has given so much to the culture of the Western World. Children are strong and goodlooking even in the poorer sections of the city. Everywhere you see people engaged in a lively conversation. Friends greet friends with a handshake and a pleasant word, and their friendliness is contagious.
The sounds in Madrid are really impressive. In the morning newsboys awaken you with their cries calling the first edition. The lottery vendors never cease to offer their wares. Then the street vendors fill the air. You can still see them with their donkeys along the boulevards, indifferent to a new 1952 Cadillac trying to get ahead. Pedestrians are allowed to cross the boulevards at designated corners only. If you try to cross against a red light, you may be fined two pesetas on the spot. The kind policeman, of course, very seldom fines an inexperienced tourist. Between the hours of one and four (siesta time), however, when all the shops are closed, the streets are deserted, lights do not function, and even the police are out of sight. Later when the sun is down and evening suddenly falls, the streets come to life again. Families wander out to take the before-supper promenade. Happy voices and laughter fill the air. Madrid lives at night.
Spaniards know how to entertain in a lavish way, and Madrid—now that many embassies have been reopened—is rapidly becoming one of the most popular capitals in Europe. The Castellana-Hilton Hotel very near completion is one more indication of this general trend. Madrid is proud of its beautiful hotels but the Castellana-Hilton seems to aim at surpassing all others. In Madrid, the late dining and theater-going pushes appointments ahead of the clock and one seldom gets to sleep before 2 a.m. Supper usually starts at 10 p.m. and shows and theatrical performances at 11 p.m.
While in Madrid we never tried to duplicate the meals of our home. There is a lot of fun in hunting local delicacies and choosing dishes that can be enjoyed. Spanish cuisine is substantial and plentifully served, and it is cheaper than in the United States. In general, food is not highly seasoned—as some people seem to believe—like Mexican cooking Every region of the country has its own specialties—Madrid can offer you all of them if you so desired.
One of the Basque country specialties that has spread throughout Spain is salt codfish cooked up in a tomato sauce—Bacalao a la Vizcaína—and another is the same fish served in olive oil. Clams are prepared magnificently, a very small, hard-shelled variety, steamed with a sauce of garlic and olive oil and finely chopped parsley, and served as almeja marinera.
One of the bases of Spanish diet is pulses ■—dried beans, lentils and chick peas. They are cooked in many ways and the dishes have different names in each part of the country. The Basques like white or red beans stewed with chorizo—a peppery red sausage. Asturias is famous for fabadas, a kind of simplified cassoulet of white beans with salt pork and sausage. Madrid’s specialty is cocido, made with big yellow chick peas, boiled beef, chicken, bacon and other choice bits. It is a meal all by itself. Paella, another dish that delights every visitor is much served in Madrid.
We had wonderful Paellas La Barraca at La Reina Street in Madrid. Señor Luna, the manager, explained to me how to make it. “Its foundation,” he said, “is rice flavored with saffron, and in it are mixed many tidbits of seafood: Prawns, flakes of fish, small clams and anything of the sort that suits the chef’s fancy. Small bits of meat and chicken are also included and the whole thing is decorated on top with strips of sweet red pimento and with green peas.” My wife and I ordered paella—it was delicious. Of course, we tried Spanish wines. In Spain you are bound to become familiar with the groupings of sherry wines which are: finos, amontillados and olorosos. Which one to choose? Well, it is up to you.
Prado Museum of Madrid
The Louvre in Paris and the Prado in Madrid are magnificent examples of man’s achievements in the artistic field. You have to see them both before you can say that you have seen the best paintings in the world. The Prado contains unique collections of paintings! Here Velasquez is shown in all his greatness; the Museum seems to be a shrine dedicated to him. Velasquez brought realism to its height as an art. El Prado
contains portraits of royalty; Los Borrachos (inebriates) ; La Fragua (forge) de Vulcano; various dwarfs; and Las Meninas, a picture of the royal family as Velasquez saw them in a mirror with a portrait of himself painting them. The picture of Las Meninas occupies a room by itself, almost covering one wall. The figures seem to move, their lips to open. Standing before this picture you know that something miraculous has come within your experience.
El Greco (born in Crete 1541, died in Toledo 1577 where the best examples still remain) is well represented in the Prado. The elongation of figures seems to respond to El Greco’s inner vision and his longing to express something that is on a higher plane than the merely terrestrial. Here you’ll find La Resurrección, La Crucifixión, El Caballero de la mano al pecho (gentleman with his hand on his breast).
Goya (who died in 1828) comes closer to us than the old master. He was the epilogue to art of the 16th century. Goya painted all types, showing up the life of the times, not only in the Court but among the common people. La Familia de Carlos IV; Dos de Mayo, 1808; and best known canvases, La Maja Vestida and La Maja Desnuda (dressed and undressed) and scores of great value can be seen in the Prado.
The Museum contains dozens of pictures by Ribera, Zurbaran, and Murillo and holds the finest Titians outside of Italy. Van Dyke is well represented and there are many many Rubens, to say nothing of a collection of Flemish Primitives. The Prado Museum is indeed one of the artistic wonders of the World.
Seville on top
Seville is something unique in Spain. Seeing Seville is to feel the city vibrating about you. You may see it a dozen times, and yet it will be worth another visit. Seville is the Alcazar, the Cathedral, the Giralda. Seville is the Street of Sierpes, narrow and crowded with shops. The Cathedral is big enough to hold a fleet. “It shall be so great that posterity shall think us mad,” the builders used to say. The lovely quarter of Santa Cruz, with its twisting, winding little white byways, is a perfect set for the most romantic story. Every whitewashed garden wall has its wrought-iron lantern and its casual overflow of vines. Every window hides behind a pot-bellied iron grill bristling with spikes. But through open doors you catch glimpses of inviting patios reminding you that Murillo-—the famous painter—once lived here.
Granada is another beautiful city. It was once the capital of the Arab Kingdom. The Alhambra is one of Granada’s most famous treasures. This is a palace and fortress built by the Arabs on the top of a hill. In the palace are the patios or courts known the world over. The Myrtle Court and the Court of the Lions gave Washington Irving unforgettable impressions. In the Court of the Myrtles the air is laden with scents of jasmine, balsam and syringa, growing beside jade-hued water-pools. In addition to the Cathedral, Granada has the Generafi’s gardens, a paradise of sweet perfumes. Granada, according to the Spanish poet Villaespesa, is “the soul of my race.”