Pan A4/mzca.n
November, 1952	WORLD AfRWÆYS TEACHER	7
their way slowly through the endless olive groves of Andalusia, there is the sound of singing, castanets, guitars and laughter. G After religious ceremonies of Whit Sunday, the long journey home begins. Romerias, of course, belong essentially to the country districts of Spain.
Verbenas, on the other hand, are held in the towns, or separate districts in large cities. It is a “night festival on the eve of a religious holiday.” Verbenas are open-air affairs, demanding the clear nights of high summer. Very typical is the “Verbena de la Paloma (dove)” in Madrid. Fireworks, music, traditional dances, people of every walk of life enjoy themselves well into the dawn, with tireless energy and enthusiasm.
Feria, meaning Fair, suggests some commercial activities, but you will see very little buying or selling, except something to quench the thirst. The “Feria de Sevilla”— a month after Easter, is probably the most famous. The Feria' de Jerez de la Frontera, however, on April 29th, 30th and May 1st seems to retain its pre-mechanical age atmosphere more effectively. Jerez is in the land of horse lovers, and cavalcades of magnificent animals are one of the features of its feria. The men wear short, tight-fitting jackets, soft leather boots and wide-brimmed Cordoban hats, while the women ride in smartly turned out open carriages, wearing the high comb and lace mantilla on their heads.
In these customs religion provides the excuse, but during Easter Week, the Church k really takes first place. The Semana Santa c is celebrated with magnificence everywhere. Seville, of course, attracts most visitors to Spain. Pilgrimages are obviously of a purely religious nature, but are evidence of a spirit that equally moved our ancestors to suffer similar hardships. Two of the most famous Spanish pilgrimages are those to the Black Virgin located in a monastery on the sacred mountain of Montserrat, near Barcelona, and that to the tomb of Spain’s Patron, Santiago1 (St. James the Apostle) in Santiago de Compostela, near La Coruna.
As for music and dancing, Spain is undoubtedly one of the most fascinating in Europe. Most countries possess traditional songs and dances which are a curiosity brought out on special occasions. In Spain folk-music is today very much alive. If a Sevillano feels happy, he will sing in the extraordinary, almost Arab, cadences of flamenco. The orchestras I heard in Madrid and Seville never ceased to play folk-music. The same thing applies to the dance. Spanish dancers do not interpret anything else but their traditional dances. In Madrid’s Carlos III Theater the entire evening show I saw was devoted to dances of Spain, and the show had been running for many months. There one could see the muneira of Galicia, the giraldilla of Leon, the fandango of Almeria and the jota of Aragon.
Spanish dance, with its fierce stamping of feet and purring rattle of castanets, is more a or less familiar to you, but few people real-? ize the great importance of the sinuous hand, finger and wrist movement, which can relate the story that is being interpreted. Spanish people do like their romerias, verbenas and folk-dances, music and customs. Spain’s traditions may be ancient, but they are still very much alive. The past for
MATADOR—His jacket is of satin, richly embroidered in gold and silver. He wears short trousers, silk stockings, and light shoes without heels. When he is to engage the bull, he first stands before the president with the hat upraised in his hand while he delivers the formal phrases dedicating the bull, then throws the hat to the ground behind him before approaching the bull.
them is not an old story, but rather the beginning of a story that is still being told.
Toros bravos
If you go to Spain, how can you miss a bullfight ?
Bullfighting is nothing new. Its origins can be traced back over 3,000 years to ancient Crete; its modern version is exclusively Spanish. Scores of books have been written about bullfighting and many novels have dealt with this subject, among others,
Blood and Sand, Death in the Afternoon, Brave Bulls, Matador, etc. The name of the authors?*
Explanations of bullfighting by experts in psychology, psychiatry and sociology are legion. Let them rest in peace. Some accuse Spaniards of cruelty. Spaniards simply shrug their shoulders and smile. “The bull is not too naive,” Spaniards say, “and one can never fix the fight,” they add. Whether you like it or not, bullfighting is, at its best, a magnificent spectacle, colorful, passionately intense, and without rival in the present-day world.
Putting aside all considerations of human or animal suffering, bullfighting certainly contains elements of superb courage, infinite grace and tremendous excitement. At the Bull Fight in Madrid my wife and I were apprehensive for the matador’s life—not the bull’s. Once we saw the skill and art of the torero, the expression of confidence in the faces of 25,000 spectators, the knowledge the crowd had of tauromaquia (which is Spanish for bull-fighting) we began to relax. After the 2nd bull (six were killed that day) when the bullfighter did a beautiful pase, our “ole” joined the chorus of 25,000 voices.
Women do work
Don’t let anyone tell you that the idea of a woman working in Spain seems very queer to Spaniards; that the career girl is unknown and arouses suspicion. I have seen girls working very efficiently in travel agencies and in airport offices, or lecturing in English, French and Spanish before scores of tourists. You can see them in Madrid, El Escorial, Toledo, explaining the works of art of the Prado Museum and San Francisco Church. And those girls are beautiful, too.
* Blasco Ibanez, Ernest Hemingway, Tom Lea, Barn-aby Conrad, respectively.
TAUROMAQUIA, which is Spanish for bullfighting, is the national sport of Spain and the Spanish speaking countries. A milder version much less hazardous to the men and the animals is popular in Portugal.