Pan American
November, 1952	________World Airways Teacher_______
THE TRANS-ATLANTIC FLIGHT
The direct route to Portugal and Spain is from New York to the Azores, and Lisbon, Portugal, and then either to Barcelona or Madrid. Or one may go by way of London and Paris, or perhaps return over that route. (See map on the opposite page.)
For this unit, let’s say we’ll travel eastward to London, then down through Paris to Madrid. Your guide on the flight as far as Paris will be eleven-year-old Hope Niman of New York City, who made that flight this summer on the Rainbow, Pan American’s Clipper Tourist Service. Hope had just finished the seventh grade in P.S. 9, in New York City, when she started on her trip to Europe last June. We asked her to observe carefully, make notes, and then write a letter about her flight which we could pass on to- boys and girls who will be making imaginary flights during this school term—and who eventually may follow her to Europe.
From here on, Hope Niman takes over:
As I walked into Idlewild airport I began to believe that our trip to Europe was not only a dream but was something real and true. How different it was from the Mayflower which carried its passengers many months in order to- transport them from England to Plymouth Rock.
Time for Take
Time went quickly at Idlewild but I wanted to see our plane; all of a sudden the good-byes were over and I saw it, the Pan American brand new Rainbow Clipper. To me it looked enormous and it was, for it was a DC6, the biggest tourist plane. We discovered later that it was also the fastest of all commercial planes, only the jets go faster. We went up the high steps and seated ourselves; the steward closed the big doors, the steps were removed, the plane taxied down the runway just like a giant car, soon the propellers began to turn. After a while I wondered why we were on the ground so long with the propellers turning. It was because (as the Captain told me later) they were testing the motors to be sure that everything was in good order before the take off. The last check done, up we went smoothly and calmly higher and higher.
There were all kinds of people on the plane: old ones, young ones and even little babies.
I noticed a peculiar looking small thing on the side of my seat towards the window. I asked the stewardess what it was and she said that through the little nozzles fresh air came which ventilated the plane. The plane was pressurized, that means we could fly high and still breathe. Soon I saw the beautiful view of the airport with its many colored lights and a great thrill passed through me. How quickly we came to Providence, Rhode Island, and Boston, Mass, each outdoing themselves in beauty. This was like a Magic Carpet.
The steward and stewardess were both very friendly and cheerful. It was past my bedtime when we left and now it was even later, so I covered myself with the Pan American soft blanket, lay back in the comfortable chair and fell fast asleep.
HOPE NIMAN—“Now they would be real things that I could see and touch and remember for the rest of my life.”
I woke up to see one of the most beautiful things imaginable, the sun rising. Down below us were beautiful fleecy clouds looking like balls of cotton. All my life I had seen clouds and sky over my head and now I was above the clouds. It was like the song in the Wizard of Oz “Someday over the Rainbow way up high.” In front of us the sun stretched across the sky like rising fire. I enjoyed the sun rising but fell back to sleep again. The next thing I remember is being awakened with the call “fasten your safety belts, we are going to- land at Goose Bay, Labrador”. We would have stopped, as most planes do at Gander, Newfoundland, but because the radio operator had learned of fog, we headed for safer, Goose Bay instead. The stewardess passed out chewing gum and we came down in a smooth landing. Goose Bay looked very bare and was freezing. We took a little snack there while the plane was being refueled.
Time Zones
After Goose Bay, I fell asleep again. When I woke up, I asked my mother what time it was. When she told me that it was twenty minutes to- two, I said “but I didn t have my breakfast yet”. My mother laughed and said “I’ve changed my watch to Paris time. By New York time, it’s only twenty minutes to nine” (There’s five hours difference).
Captain Evarts was so kind and patient in his explanations.
In a while a beautiful thing came into view, Southern Ireland looking like a patch quilt with different colored pieces of land, red, light green and many darker shades. There were fences separating the various colors. It reminded me of pieces of colored tiles put together in a lovely design. Transparent clouds filed overhead like a dream.
Soon a delicious lunch was served. It was composed of chicken, rice, green peas and a scrumptious apple tart for dessert.
Then, once again 1 heard the call “fasten
your safety belts, please, we are going to land at Shannon, Ireland.”
There we looked at different products from Ireland and sent postcards. For the first time I heard a genuine Irish Brogue and liked it, though I had some trouble understanding it.
Then again we boarded the plane. We were on our way, just two and a half hours more and we’d be at our destination, Paris.
After the take off, I discovered I had more windows to look out of because many of the people had gotten off at Shannon. A lady told my mother and me before she got out at Shannon “I haven’t been back to the old country in thirty years, now flying has made it possible.”
In the afternoon, I was invited to visit the cockpit with the Captain. This is where the Captain, Co-Captain and Engineers stay. Also the instruments that make a flight possible. I had the great pleasure of sitting in the Co-pilots seat, next to the Captain. Around me were all kinds of technical instruments. First I listened to the radio while the Captain reported his location to the nearest airport (London then).
Flight Instruments
I would like to- tell you about some of the instruments. The most important in my opinion is the Automatic Pilot. It is used in good weather. It frees the pilot to concentrate better on his many maps, instruments and reports. A pilot is a very busy man. Once the automatic pilot is set it steers by itself. If the weather is bad though, a human pilot is better because he can use his judgment and experience to keep the plane riding smoothly. Another very interesting one was the'“Trim Tab” which is used for keeping the plane equal in weight. For instance if there are more people on the right side of the plane than the left the “Trim Tab” makes the plane equal on both sides. Another is the A.F.O. Auto- Direction Finder which tells where the Stations are. An Airways marker by its dashes tells the pilot where he is because he compares it with the dots on his map which correspond with those on the Airways marker. It’s something like the Morse code.
Soon we were flying over England. Unfortunately because of the famous London fog we couldn’t see her. Too bad but will have to wait for my return trip to see London. We will stop there for several days. The English channel was more generous with its view. We saw the shore line so clearly that it was very difficult to realize we were flying so high. And now came the best of all : With a thrill, I saw my destination : Paris. It looked like the kind of dioramas I had seen in school, the Seine River like a small stream with its many bridges. It was exciting as one passenger or another would cry out “There’s the Eiffel Tower”, “Here is the Arc de Triomphe”, “There’s Notre Dame”, “Is that the Sacre Coeur?” I had read about these places and seen pictures of them. Now they would be real things I could see and touch and remember for the rest of my life.