Pan Ammican
November, 1952	WORLD AMWAVS TEACf/RR
of highways so the country -must rely heavily on the Tagus and Douro Rivers for-.trans-portation to the ocean. There are however, known deposits of coal, copper, lead, sulphur and tin.
Textile production is the principal manufacturing industry but one of the most characteristic of the land is the manufacture of azulejos or porcelain tiles. This was inherited from the Moors, and tiles are used extensively for interior and exterior decoration of public and private buildings. At Sacavem, near Lisbon, a large factory makes tile and chinaware. In Peniche, an old fishing village on the north coast there is a local pillow lace industry and the Island of Madeira is also famous for embroideries as well as wine.
The capital city, Lisbon is also the chief seaport of the land. Oporto is the second city and stands on the steep rocky right bank of the Douro River in the northern part of the country about 165 miles from Lisbon. Owing to a bar at the mouth of the river, an Atlantic harbor has been constructed four miles farther north. The other principal port of the country is Setubal located about 17 miles southeast of Lisbon. It is one of the important tuna and sardine canning centers of the country. The nation’s sardines are famous all over the world. At the outskirts of Setubal, orchards and vineyards producing oranges and muscatel grapes are found.
There is an industry however which is developing in both Spain and Portugal which is a great potential source of much needed American dollars. It is the tourist industry. Like so many things in Portugal, tourism is being developed slowly but surely.
The chief airport on the Portuguese mainland is Portela de Sacavem, the landplane base at Lisbon. Before landplanes flying from the U. S. ever land in Continental Portugal however they have touched Portuguese soil at Horta, in the Azores where refueling takes place. In Spain, the airport at Barcelona is Solevad, while that at Madrid is Barajas. Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers leave New York and Boston four times a week for Lisbon, Portugal via Santa Maria, Azores. Twice a week planes go on to Barcelona in Spain. Once a week the Spanish National Airline Iberia offers a connecting service from Barcelona to Madrid. Flying time to Lisbon is 19 hours and 50 minutes; while actual flying time to Barcelona is 23 hours and 30 minutes.
When Spain and Portugal have dollars available they prefer American goods and will undoubtedly buy more of our merchandise as soon as they can afford to do so. Neither can pay its bills however, unless they can sell products to. the United States or provide Americans with services which will earn dollars. The pleasantest means of getting these dollars abroad is for American visitors to take them over. Each one left behind will ultimately be spent in the United States. Moreover, the dollars spent in Spain and Portugal will open up new worlds, for the entire ways of life in the two countries are very different from that enjoyed in the United States.
GRAPES—Both Spain and Portugal are famous for their vineyards, and the fine wines produced from their grapes. This photograph, showing a vat of grapes, came from Portugal.
THE IBERIAN PENINSULA
(Continued from Page 4)
6.	Art :
Paintings of Velasquez, El Greco, Goya; Prado’ Museum in Madrid, native costumes, church fiestas, style of various cathedrals and other buildings in Spain and Portugal.
7.	Mathematics :
Distances, comparisons in methods of travel, unit of money, rate of exchange, why it is less expensive to travel in Spain and Portugal at present, money loaned by the United States, graphs showing increases in production and trade.
4.2	Skills:
An increase in use of work skills should be realized as each unit progresses. Children’s ability to use research material, scan for facts, interpret in their own words, organize and tell the information they have gathered, discuss and give opinions ; should become greater.
4.3	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
A realization of the changes these nations have gone through.
An understanding of the changes in government and the set up of the government today.
An interest in the place Spain and Portugal are taking in the current events of the day.
An understanding of and interest in their culture and the parts of it that have become part of America.
5.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES :
1.	Li ten to Spanish music.
2.	A puppet show with puppets dressed in native costumes at a famous fiesta, a bull fight, etc.
3.	Tracing the routes of Spanish and Portuguese explorers. Compare these routes with those used today by ships and planes.
4.	Map work showing famous places, places of interest, industries and products which are sent to and received from the United States.
5.	A travel bureau planning trips through Spain and Portugal and guides pointing out places to see, calling and writing for routes, fare information, etc.
6.	An exhibit of minerals, cork products, Madeira embroideries, Cordoba leathers, Merino wool, etc.
7.	Construct or draw replicas of the Alhambra, Moorish castles, and other buildings in Spain and Portugal.
8.	Have someone who has visited these countries show pictures and talk to the class.
9.	Give book reviews of stories about Spain and Portugal which were read by members of the class.
10.	Colorful slides of fiestas, street scenes, bull fights, etc., might be made by the class as a result of their research. Share with other classes.
6.	CULMINATION:
Any of the ideas above might he used
singly or in combination so that the results of the work accomplished might be
shared with others.
7.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
1.	Printed aids including magazines such as “Holiday” and “National Geographic.”
2.	Audio Visual aids.