Page 4
Pt/v Amerîcæ/v
World Airways Teacher
A Unique Paris Tapestry
Americans often find very, intriguing the streets of Paris which in the most surprising and baffling fashion shift their names just as whimsically as the River Seine changes its course. If you start off along the Boulevard de la Madeleine, for instance, in no time you’ll find yourself strolling down the Boulevard des Capucines. A few blocks farther this avenue gives way to the Boulevard des Italiens which in turn becomes Montmartre and then is transformed into La Poissonnière.
There is something mysteriously charming about all this, and very instructive, too. The meaning of these names sometimes escapes us, but the curiosity remains. There is no difficulty in finding little and big streets with strange names if one just walks around. Somewhere you’ll see a Fishing Cat Street (Chat-qui-Pêche), the Four Winds Street (Quatre-Vents), or the Two Angels Street (Deux Anges). There is one for St. Anthony-of-the-Arts as well as streets which suggest the small trades—the Street of the Scissors (des Ciseauk), the Street of the Wooden Shoe, or the Street of the Little Butcher-Shop (Petite Boucherie). The streets with “two” something are numerous — Deux-Freres, Deux-Gares, Deux-Ponts, Deux-Portes, Deux-Soeurs — and so are those with “small” something — Petits Peres, Petits Pierres, Petits Ponts.
Then you come to other streets with names like “Bad Boys” (Mauvais-Garçons) and “Four Thieves” (Quatre-Voleurs) which have their adversaries the “Bons-Enfants” and the “Bons Garçons”. In the financial section of the Exchange (Bourse), it is rather agreeable to find a Pickpocket Street (the expensive district of St. Honoré) and the Street of the Innocents which ends in rue Lingerie.
Paris has always honored and continues to honor great and little men. Around the Arc de Triomphe streets are named after personages, François I, George V, President
Wilson, Byron, Chateaubriand, Victor Hugo, and others. Between the rue Jules César and the Avenue Franklin Delano Roosevelt lies a network commemorating the glittering glory of the past—enough to satisfy every faction of French life with true French impartiality. Danton has a street, as also the man who caused his head to roll, Robespierre. There is a rue de la Marseillaise for the patriots (all Frenchmen are), and also les rues Liberté, Egalité and Fraternité. No less numerous are the streets named after the Valois, the Bourbon, the Orleans, and the Navarre. It is pleasing to note that there is an Impasse Satan and a Passage of Hell, and it is consoling to find also an Ave Maria Square, and a Cité Grace-of God.
The great are not forgotten. There is a Dante Street, a Milton Street, a Velazquez Avenue, a Dickens Square as well as Goethe and Mendelssohn Streets. America is well represented as Washington, Franklin, Lincoln, and Poe have their avenues. Though Paris has so many attractions to offer, an excursion into its tapestry of historical streets with their fascinating names is always a rewarding experience for all.
Some Enchanted Parks
Paris is graced with numerous and incomparable parks. Many, of course, have looked at the Luxembourg Gardens or have gone once around the Bois de Boulogne. However, we usually remain unfamiliar with the many accessible open places of French daily life. Historical reminders and delightful gardens mark a distinctive Paris not on parade for the visitor.
The parks and gardens of Paris have a beauty of their own. It was Baron Hauss-mann, backed by Napoleon III, who transformed a bald hillock full of quarries into the Buttes-Chaumont—a picturesque wooded oasis enclosing a small lake. A rocky island juts up from the waters dominated by a little church, accessible by two bridges from the surrounding high land. A stroll among
PARIS—Whenever the weather is fine artists set up their easels out-of-doors. This one is working in the Place de Tertre in Montmartre.
the lawns and shrubs, and lunch in the restaurant by the lake is always enjoyed.
The Bois de Vincennes is another lovely spot. It is a former royal forest. In the zoo one can see animals in their natural habitats. Also a fine Museum of Overseas France. If historically minded, you will seek out the Chateau of Vincennes—the Versailles of the Middle Ages—for its splendid XIV century dungeon, or a Gothic chapel, and recall the memories of Valois, Bourbon and Napoleonic personages who played their royal roles there in other times.
Not far is the Garden of Plants. It is a lovely park where lovers can wander along the paths of clipped trees, enjoying the rose garden, the orangerie, the alpine specimens and winter garden or lose themselves in the labyrinth. From an undulating waste ground of the south side of Paris, Hauss-ntann created the Parc Montsouris, giving it an English flavor, with winding walks and irregularly shaped lawns. Then, the ever loved Luxembourg Gardens can never be missed. There, dignified professors froin^^ nearby Sorbonne or College de France gc^^R strolling. And the Champ de Mars, on the^* left bank, below the Eiffel Tower and within view of the dome of the Invalides. Across the Seine, the Palais de Ghaillot offers a terrace from which one can gaze at the roof-tops and steeples of Paris.
On the outskirts of the City is the Bois de Boulogne with its rose garden of tlu^^ Bagatelle, the new Shakespeare garden, the^^ Longchamps race course, cascades and lakes and fine restaurants known for generations. Going from Buttes Chaumont to the Parc Montsouris and the Bois de Vincennes one can circumnavigate Paris. But the most famous stroll of them all is the stroll along the Avenue des Champs Elysees. That is, of course, the first walk everybody takes in Paris. There is the Place de l’Etoile, dominated by the Arch of Triumph, which commemorates the glories of Napoleon and his generals, most of them almost forgotten^^ From that point, a broad avenue sweeps^^ eastward halfway down td the Rond Point, where with its fountains rimmed with spouts of glass, the avenue broadens into a really park-like proportion, and then leads the eye to the magnificent Place de la Concorde, its termination. Concorde means agreement and harmony in French, but the history of the Place has been anything but peaceful. In 1770 more than 1400 people were killed and injured here in panic set off by a discharge of rockets in honor of the marriage of Louis XVI to Marie Antoinette. Later the King and Queen were to die here when the guillotine was set in the square during the French Revolution, and almost 3000 heads rolled within the next two years. Today, however, it is peaceful— Concorde.
The Tuileries Gardens begin right at the Place de la Concorde, extending all the way to the Louvre, the great Museum. The Tuileries’ southern side is bordered by a quai and the Seine River. There one can see fishermen waiting patiently for the catch along the shady banks, and booklovers poking in the boxes fixed to the stone walls.
There is, finally, a tiny park in the lie de la Cité, below the statue of Henri IV.