s ;	-	'	'	Y « Y~. ■ "Y). Y $ '■ >sY'\y -Y'' ' ¿ YV ( v/'^ '^'''VV t '	'■	'	' '
:
■	. »si

=5>

_____
Pa/v Amerîca/v
World Alrhavs Teacher
■■<	.. ■'	'	'•	-	' ,	-'	-: A ^	•	‘
' * • •

May, 1956
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XII No. 4
AVIATION EDUCATION: SOME NOTES AND COMMENTS
By George Gardner
Is interest in aviation education increas-
|ing?
| If so, are materials to nurture this interest available in sufficient numbers, and are the materials sound?
Are the agencies which seek to foster interest in aviation education on the right track, and are they doing enough?
The question is, Are there answers to these questions?
On a definitive basis, such as would be represented by a Gallup-type poll, there are no answers. This is unfortunate for
boys and girls now in school, jmeparing for jobs and careers, at a time when the aviation industry is one of the largest employers...
It is unfortunate, also, for the teachers cf these youngsters.
However, the situation is not exactly desperate. It is possible to observe what is going on and draw some valid conclusions.
For example:
The National Aviation Education Council which met in convention recently in New York City now has more than 1,000
members, a full time Executive Director in Washington (Dr. Evan Evans, formerly Superintendent of Schools at Overland Park, Kansas) and an office staff, a comprehensive publications program with a number of valuable booklets and pamphlets already available and others in preparation, and a well-conceived “clearing house” plan for making publications of other agencies readily available.
The Civil Air Patrol is giving top priority to its aviation education and cadet pro-(Continued on Page T-3)

PA A
■■■■■■N73IPA*
if
■ill!
SUPER-7 CLIPPER—This new aircraft—latest in the	DC-7 series—is the DC-7-C, adapted by Pan American	World	Airways and the
Douglas Aircraft Company for over-ocean, non-stop	tourist class service. It	is the fastest, most comfortable	of any	all-tourist plane,
and has greater range. It is powered by four of the newest Wright turbo-compound engines giving it 13,000 horsepower at takeoff. Extra fuel tanks give it the ability to fly non-stop for 4,000 miles, and	still have reserve fuel for another 1,000	miles. Its cruising
speed is 353 miles an hour, carrying capacity 71	passengers plus 6,300	pounds of baggage and cargo.