P/nv American
Page T-2___________________WORLD AIRWAYS TFACHFR
c
Pan American
World Airways Tfachfr lj|
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways
George Gardner, Superintendent, Educational Services
Copyright, 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island Gity 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Wardrobe Guide For Europe
Throughout the United States this month, increasing numbers of teachers are poring oxer colorful literature which helps them plan their European trips schedule for summer, 1956.
For the lady teachers, there is the deliciously absorbing additional problem: “What Shall I Take to Wear?” An air line tries to think of everything, and consideration has been given to this phase of travel planning.
Jane Kilbourne, fashion advisor for Pan American World Airways, is continually experimenting on her own travels xvith various wardrobe combinations. She also inter-xiexvs other women travelers for practical hints, and comes np with the answers. This year, she reports, clothes have never been so excitingly designed just for travelers— lightxveight, wrinkle-proof—with the pretty and practical sheath and jacket costume predominating. Here are her general wardrobe recommendations for the woman planning a Clipper trip to the Continent this season.
Baggage Allowance
First of all, the baggage allowance on all transatlantic flights is 44 pounds for Pan American’s tourist or “Rainbow” service, and 66 pounds for first-class or “President” service. But, Miss Kilbourne has found, even the 44-pound allowance is plenty for a well-rounded wardrobe, if well planned, with space left over for items acquired abroad—and what fun is a trip if you can’t do a bit of shopping?
Weight of s'uitcases is included in the baggage allowance, so buy the lightest type of airplane luggage if you are in the market for nexv luggage. Some of the fiber types are very good—light but strong. Natural leather is nice-looking but tends to be heavy.
Luggage now comes in smart color combinations that can be a fashion adjunct. One maker even put out a cosmetic case with a shoulder strap, shaped like a binocular case, that can double as a tote bag in addition to your Pan American flight bag.
In selecting clothing for light weight and convenience in laundering there should be heavy accent on the acrylic or synthetic fabrics, the nylons, orlons, dacrons, acrilons and the like. This is a “must” for lingerie
and stockings, sweaters, and for swim suits too in case you xvant to take a quick swim before moving on. These fabrics drip-dry quickly, require no ironing, retain their shape and are xvrinkle-proof.
An important hint for keeping luggage light and maintaining a variable choice of outfits is mixing and matching, with one or txx'o central color themes on the darker side.
Basic Color Scheme
By sticking to a basic color scheme, planned along neutral shades, with separates to mix-match, and with colorful accessories, the traveler can spring a surprising number of costumes from her luggage.
Some things are better bought in the States, for reasons of quality and price. All nylon and orlon items, for instance, are much cheaper and in more variety here. Good foundation garments are rare and very expensive overseas. Shoes should be bought here along with swim suits, including swim caps. Unless you want to experiment with local products, take your own toothpaste and brush. American brands can be bought abroad but are higher priced.
Cosmetics, like perfumes, toilet waters, colognes, and powders are things that are fun to buy in the countries xvhere they are made even though they may be more expensive. You can also buy xvoolens—sweaters, skirts, classic suits—to advantage in England and Ireland. Cottons are expensive in Europe. French and Italian silks are dreamy. You’ll want to buy some to bring back.
A fitted dressing goxvn in dark, opaque color or print, either nylon or silk for
weight and space saving, will be found very useful in European hotels.
Sample Wardrobe
Here’s a sample wardrobe to be contained in a 29-inch suitcase as suggested by Miss Kilbourne:
1 sheath dress xvith matching or contrasting jacket, in wool or silk.
1 basic dark xvool dress (for cool countries — Scandinavia or Great Britain).
1	dark wool or silk tweed suit.
2	dark after-five frocks.
2 dacron or wool jersey and tailored blouses.
Orion or cashmere sweaters to accompany
2 skirts, with matching stoles for mixmatching.
2 evening skirts — one short, one long.
1 black or white jeweled sweater for evening xvear.
1 formal evening dress, short if just one is taken.
1 warm topcoat, wool — or short fur.
Shoes, including flats for sightseeing, dark town-type; dressy sandals for evening^
Hats can be either the crushable crocheted^ kind, easy to pack; or a flower and veiling will do without taking up room in a suitcase. You won’t need hats and gloves in all countries. However, it’s nice to have a head covering just in case.
One large tote bag. Cosmetics can be carried in flexible plastic jars and bottles, either in cosmetic case or suitcase to sav<^ room. Light raincoat, or buy one of theM smart English ones in London, where they know what to do about rain. You are sure to strike it.
All-Year Excursion Fares To South America
An all-year excursion fare providing for a 30 per cent slash in current rates for round-trip air travel to various South American countries has been announced by Pan American World Airways, and Pan American Grace Airways (Panagra).
The new fare, effective April 23, is applicable to groups of two or more persons traveling together to and south of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, Lima, Peru or La Paz, Bolivia. Trips must be completed in 30 days.
First Class and Tourist
Both first-class and tourist travel is included in the excursion fares and stopovers are permitted. The travel must originate and terminate in the United States or Canada.
Round-trip fares will be 70 per cent of the one-way fares now in effect for the itinerary traveled.
Panagra-West Coast of South American affiliate of the Pan American World Airways System, stated in its announcement that the new excursion fare will bring the price of a complete 28-day package tour around South America to less than $900 and place South America on a competitive basis with Europe for the lucrative U. S. travel dollar. A trip to Lima will cost less
than a trip to Paris, and a trip to Buenos Aires will be less than a trip to Rome.
Panagra pointed out that now for thJ first time travel agents would be able to’ use these fares to build up low-cost package tours to Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Brazil, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, and said most agents were getting ready to sell South America’s attractions this spring and summer with nexv low-cost vacation tours.
Typical Tours
Typical of these is an 11-day all-expense* tour of Panama, Quito and Lima with accommodations in the finest hotels and sightseeing tours for only $516 from Miami.
A 28-day around South America allexpense tour via Panagra and Pan American, including hotel accommodations, sightseeing and other tourist attractions and stopping at Panama, Lima, Santiago, Vina del Mar, Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Sao Paulo, Santos, Rio de Janeiro and San Juan xvill be only $862.
Specially designed to encourage group travel to South America, the new excursion fare should result in a greater movement of teachers, students, farmers and businessmen to that continent and should help to stimulate greater travel among sportsmen to South American fishing and skiing resorts this year.