Pak America\
World	Alehaes Teacher
Page 3
France has always been a provocative, multiple, engaging and unpredictable nation. Provocative because it tends to rouse excitement in a multiple and charming and unexpected fashion. The adjectives used to describe France are amazingly contradictory. The French have been called generous and miserly, idealist and cynical, fierce and apathetic, gay and shrewd. Most people consider them highly stimulating and loyal friends, and most travelers fall in love with their warmth and hospitality. Books by the hundreds continue to rhapsodize France and thrill about her nostalgic enchantments, and often swoon about her poetry of soul. So “Let it be with Caesar.”
As to the French language, old Chaucer mentions it in his Tales. “And French she spak full faire and fetisly/ After the scole of Stratford atte Bowe/ For French of Paris was to hir unknowe.” The Earl of Lytton goes overboard in its praise. While rather critical of other European languages and peoples, his admiration for the French is boundless. “When’er I hear French/ Spoken as I approve/ I feel myself quietly falling in love.”
Richard Steele at the beginning of the 18th century is equally enthusiastic about France.
) “Could I transport myself with a wish from one country to another, I should choose to pass my winter in Spain, my spring in Italy, my summer in England, and my autumn in France.” Steele chose well though he probably meant to add and “April in Paris.”
Thanks to modern air transportation thousands of travelers are making their first trip abroad. For them, France needs no introduction. They have always known what it would be like. An early love of French literature and painting has filled them with yearning for this land they have seen only in imagery. For some of them it is enough that gargoyles continue to leer down from Notre Dame with a timeless Gothic grimace, that book and bird and flower markets line the banks of the Seine, that Paris keeps its silvery light, the Midi its gold. Other travelers will look at France as a playground, a school, a way of life to be learned. But for any one of these, France has an answer. A native love of gaiety and splendor is reflected in the bright resorts of Deauville, Cannes and Biarritz. A reverence for learning, in universities famous since the Middle Ages. Profound respect for the arts, including the subtle art of daily living, France gladly shares with a discerning visitor.
Travelers exploring outlying provinces find regions of astonishing variety. Brittany is mysteriously bound to Celtic legends of the supernatural. Normandy remains Norse in a comfortable landscape of apple orchards and cattle pastures. Along the Mediterranean, among olive groves, vineyards and palm trees, travelers find dignified Catalans who dance ancient steps in the streets, buoyant Provencals, and Niceans who cannot talk without singing. The Savoyards have mountains and fields brilliant with
LA BELLE FRANCE
by Enrique Portes
flowers. Burgundian nestle in a rich country of vineyards and farms. Welded together, the people who make up France have acquired a great capacity for compassion and sensitivity. Learning to live together, they have learned how to let others live. They ask little of the stranger. If he is polite the French accept him, if he is charming and intelligent they like him, if he is a genius they love him.
One trip through France, from the orchards of Normandy, the fields of golden wheat of the Beauce plain, through rich vineyards of Champagne, Burgundy and the Bordelais, to the terraced gardens, olive groves and orchards of the Mediterranean coast, convinces the traveler that France is a country resting on a solid foundation of peasant stock. It is here where the country’s stability lies, and France’s genius begins.
A True Legend — Paree
The legend of gay Paree has captured the imagination of almost every traveler. It is practically everybody’s dream city—a never-never land of soft April sunshine, fragrant chestnut blossoms, bearded noblemen in picturesque sidewalk cafés and glamorous Montmartre, a mecca of everything that is lovely and a little naughty. It is more than that. Paris still has her old famous attractions like the Eiffel Tower, Opera-Comique, fabulous perfumes, Sorbonne, Folies-Bergère, Arc de Triomphe, Notre Dame, Mona Lisa, and many others. Whenever people want to praise their home town, they call it Paris. Havana is called by the Cubans the Paris of the West Indies. Buenos Aires for the Argentinians is the Paris of South America. The constant reference to Paris indicates the position that city occupies as a place most people would go to if they could.
For Americans no place seems to convey more the feeling of being abroad than Paris
—because it is “Europe.” You walk along the Champs Elysées and you feel you are in the heart of Paris. A Sunday walk on this celebrated avenue is to the Parisian, too, what a bull fight is to a Spaniard, or a baseball game is to Americans. You gaze down the avenue at the huge and glittering cafés, theaters and shops, and you feel like any body else. That is the magic, it never seems to lose its charm and its appeal. Then you visit Paris art galleries, its old and historic churches, its great department stores and fashion centers—you can never see. all. One day you go to a perfume shop with the intention of buying something special. And that* is when your problem begins. What to choose? The perfumes are so delicate and their names so intriguing—“Toujours Toi,” “Malgré Tout,” “L’Heure Bleue,” “Ecou-tez-moi,” “Amour Sorcier,” “Imprudence,” “Vive la Vie”—and you buy them all, if you can.
Another day you drop in to try Maxim’s, or La Cremailleer, or Fouquet’s—there are in Paris more than 8000 listed restaurants, of which 4000, surely, could be considered worthy of discovery. Delicacy of palate is a tradition. Every meal is a rite, every morsel must be savored to the last ounce of flavor. And your dinner is a banquet. Your oysters are washed down with white Burgundy, your “coquille St. Jacques” with Sauterne, your Chateaubriand with Bordeaux, your roast with champagne, and your coffee is followed by a cordial or brandy. The choice is yours.
Your night life could be just as interesting. Clubs like Bal Tabarin, Chez Eve (Place Pigalle) and many others always welcome the American traveler with open arms. Henry Van Dyke was right. He thought of London as a man’s town with power1 in the air, but Paris for him was “a woman’s town, with flowers in her hair.” And so it is.
PARIS—Orly Airport is the terminal for the Flying Clippers at Paris. The airplane in this photo is a Douglas DC-6B.