Page 2
Pah Amerícah
World Alemaes Teacher
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
France is only eleven hours distant from New York City. It takes much more time to get ready for the trip than it does to make the flight.
Not that the requirements are complicated, or difficult to fulfill. It is not even necessary to have a visa if the stay in France is to be less than three months. It is necessary, though, to have a passport, and it is well to apply for the passport a month ahead of time, at least.
The application for a passport may be filed at the State Department in Washington, or at one of the department’s Passport Agencies in various cities.
A certificate of vaccination not less than 14 days, and not more than three years old, will be needed. That is for re-entry into the United States.
As for other official requirements, they are covered by the following: A visitor may bring in his baggage not more than 1,000 cigarettes, 250 cigars or four pounds of tobacco. He may have with him not more than two bottles of liquor, with seals broken. He may have with him not to exceed two pounds of foodstuffs.
We’ll book passage by Clipper well ahead of time. Travel to Europe is so popular that space on ships and airplanes is booked long in advance, especially for the summer season. If it’s possible for us to go in the fall, winter or spring, we’ll do well to choose one of those times, because hotels and public places we’ll want to visit will be less crowded. Moreover, rates are lower during the “Thrift Season”, November through March. Also during that period there is a “Family Fare” making possible additional savings.
At whatever time of year we may travel, we may select from among three services: The Rainbow Service, which is tourist class, and is at the lowest cost; President, which is the first class service; President Special, for which an extra fare is charged. And on the President, and President Special flights we may have a berth, if we like, at extra cost, or we may elect to sleep in the Sleeperette, a seat with a fully reclining back and extensible foot rest.
For the purposes of this unit of study, our trip is imaginary, so we may just as well imagine that we are booking on the President Special.
We’ll make our arrangements by telephoning, writing, or going in person to a Pan American ticket office, or to the office of an authorized travel agent. When our space has been reserved, and it is time for us to take up the ticket, we may pay in cash, or we may arrange to “Pay Later”, if we choose. Once again, in the study unit we are imagining things, so we might just as well imagine that we are paying cash, and saving the carrying charges, althc^ugh these charges are not onerous — about the same as for any personal loan.
So that’s done. What next?
The ladies probably are way ahead of us on this next step, which is wardrobe. Planning what to wear is part of the fun, especially for the girls, and of course they’ll plan to bring back home with them some Paris clothes.
In planning a wardrobe for France, the only rule to follow is the one which applies to all travel. Take what will be needed, and avoid superfluous items which will add to baggage problems. The Pan American World Airways travel guide New Horizons makes this recommendation about a wardrobe for France:
“What to Wear . . . Your newest; smartest clothes. The sort of thing you would wear in any large city at home. Don’t wear white shoes on the street. You’ll need a raincoat, a suit, walking shoes, evening clothes if you plan any gala night life. Men should dress as in any city. Dinner jacket is a necessity for a man. If you go to the Riviera, take your newest sports clothes and a fur jacket, beach clothes. Men need slacks, sport shirts, bathing trunks and robes. For skiing — what you would wear at a good resort at home, or buy your ski things abroad.”
Another important phase of preparation for our journey is learning as much as we possibly can about France, its people, their customs and the manner in which they
live. The articles on the other pages of this study unit give such information, and there are references to books, films and other sources of information which will lead to even more detailed knowledge.
These various projects will more than occupy the month or more that we have to prepare for our trip to Paris, especially if we have only spare time to devote to them. The day of departure will be here before we know it, and we’ll be checking in at the ticket counter at the International Airport, boarding our airplane, and taking off for France.
As the ground drops away beneath us, and we speed toward the east, away from the huge Idlewild Airport and across the green field of Long Island, we reflect that we are enjoying the benefits of the newest, fastest, most convenient manner of crossing the Atlantic, but none the less a method that has been time-tested in more than 50,000 crossings by Pan American Clippers, and by passengers numbering in the millions.
It is a thrilling adventure, but with all the comforts, not of home, but of luxury air travel.
The stewardess makes sure we have something to read, or a game to play, if we want it. There are cocktails for the grown ups, and canapes for all.
At dinner time, a full course meal, worthy of the finest restaurant, or, more accurately, of the finest ocean air service, is served to us at our seats.
After dinner, if we stop to refuel at Gander, in Newfoundland, there is a chance to deplane and stretch our legs. But it is a brief stop, certainly not more than an hour, and we return to the plane to continue our journey through the night.
It will be a short night. We want to be awake early, so as not to miss anything, and circumstances help us with that, for we are flying toward the rising sun so that the hours of darkness are compressed. Actually, the time is all too short. Already Orly Field at Paris is in sight. We’re landing. The flight is over, and we are ready to visit “La Belle France.”