Page 6
Pah American
Won io A/omrs Teacher
Tourists watch girl put carnations in vaporizer at perfume factory. Grasse is center for perfume essences in France.
Travel to France
American travelers have always headed for Paris and France by the thousands. To many a traveler Paris has been, and will be in the future, the focal point of any European vacation. No one has to be re-, minded that Paris has something for everyone. It is gay, historic, a cultural and artistic center, a religious center and a place of architectural beauty. Other parts of France offer attractions equally irresistible — the French Riviera with its stretches of fashionable beaches, casinos and luxurious hotels; the Chateau Country; Normandy; and Brittany, to name only a few.
The tourist industry is one of the major contributors to the French economy and an all-important source of dollar exchange. It is not an infant industry. Before Americans began to travel abroad in any great numbers, France was a vacationland for many other nations of Europe. Many travelers, however, regard France only as a land of gay enchantment. A place to go to have fun, Behind the gay tourist facade lie many problems and serious living. An appreciation of this side of French life will strengthen understanding between France and the United States, and understanding is a necessary prerequisite to any type of cooperation.
Economic Advances
During the last few years there have been some very important developments in the French economy which will affect the future economic stability of the nation. For the first time in generations, France’s young men are willing to make profound changes in their ways of life, instead of living as their fathers and grandfathers lived. Even the French birth rate has changed; today it is higher than that of any other European country except Finland. Profound developments have raised France’s economic level to nearly 30% above the peak year of 1929. Output of electricity is more than double prewar. The consumption of oil
products is double prewar also, with all refining now being done in France itself, and a probability that in a few years new oil fields discovered in France will meet a fifth of the country’s total needs.
Over $1,000,000 invested in the French iron and steel industry since the war has brought fine new plants and an output two-thirds greater than that in the years immediately preceding the war. One-third of the total output of the iron and steel industry is being exported, 100,000 tons a month even being sold to Germany. The railways constantly raise their already high standards, and have electrified 2,500 miles of track.
The French automobile industry has increased its output 150% and the motorcycle industry is now producing nearly a million motorscooters, motorcycles and motorized bicycles a year as against 48,000 before the war. France’s agricultural industry is exporting about 55,000,000 bushels of wheat and shows large surpluses in meat, dairy products, wine and sugar beets. There is a shortage in housing but the Government is working toward a goal of providing over 240,000 new dwelling units.
It is estimated that Franco-American trade increased 20% during 1955. French importers and exporters are confident that the trend will continue. The economic outlook for 1956 is favorable and negotiations on the long-hoped-for tariff reductions are scheduled to begin this year. Finally, the French Government’s decision to begin liberalizing imports from the United States is a decision of major importance in the development of economic relations between the two countries. In the last analysis, however, France can only buy from the United States if she earns the necessary dollars by exporting to this country or entertaining American travelers abroad.
Geography of France
While France lies in about the same latitude as Maine its weather is usually
somewhat warmer because of the Gulf Stream, and Paris has a climate similar to that of New York. The nation has a population of 41,907,056, approximately that of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and the New England states combined. Its size, 212,655 square miles, makes it about 20% smaller than Texas. Paris with 2,829,746 people is about the size of Philadelphia and San Francisco combined. By Pan American Clipper, direct flying time to Paris is 11 hours from New York — by jet-powered Clippers in 1959 it will be 6% hours. Through-plane service to Nice on the Riviera via Lisbon now is about 20% hours from New York and about 18% hours from Boston. By ship, five to nine days, traveling time are necessary, depending on the boat used.
With the exception of Spain and Portugal, France is the most westerly nation of continental Europe. With about 2,000 miles of coastline, the nation is supplied with a number of good harbors along the Bay of Biscay, the Mediterranean and the English Channel. The country is bounded by Belgium and Luxembourg on the northeast; by Germany, Switzerland and Italy on the east; by the Mediterranean and Spain on the south; and by the Bay of Biscay and the English Channel on the west. The nation holds the most enviable commercial position in Europe. Her land boundaries are chiefly natural, for between France and the nations on the east rise the Alps, the Juras and the Vosges Mountains; while the lofty Pyrenees form the Franco-Spanish border.
The greater part of France is a low, flat territory, but in the south and southeast are rugged mountains. The Pyrenees thrust their peaks skyward to a height of 10,500 feet with the whole range averaging well over 9,000 feet. The beautiful natural boundaries on the east are dominated by the Alps, where Mont Blanc, Europe’s highest peak, rises 15,781 feet. Running north and south, parallel to the Alps and Juras are the Cevennes, a divide between the Rhine and Rhone rivers and those which empty into the Bay of Biscay and the English Channel. Another low range, the Auvergnes, rises in the midst of a plateau in the south-central part of France. There are only four large rivers in the country. The Garonne flows into the Bay of Biscay near Bordeaux; the Rhone flows southwest and south past Lyons to Marseilles; the Seine flows northwest past Paris and on to LeHavre and the English Channel; and the Loire, flows northwest to the Bay of Biscay at Nantes.
French Industry
Fishing has long been an important industry. Along the Bay of Biscay sardines are found in vast quantities. In the English Channel and the North Sea, salmon, mackerel, herring and turbot are caught. Tunnies and anchovies are found on the shores of the Mediterranean and oysters are extensively raised in the Arcachon Basin west of Bordeaux. But fishing is not confined to the shores of France, for many French fisherman go to the Banks of Newfoundland and to Iceland for cod fishing.
After a century and a half of industrial development France is still a predominantly