There in the Square du Vert-Galant one finds a nice place to take a seat, relax and think a little for a moment about Paris, about its mystery and charm—as so many great and little people have done in the course of the centuries.
Other Cities of France
Fascinated by the allure of Paris, often we forget to visit other cities of France. Marseilles, for instance, is one of them. It is the second largest city and the chief Mediterranean port of France (about 550,000 inhabitants). It is the capital of Bouches-du-Rhône in the Gulf of Lion today but it was founded some 600 years B.C. From the air the sight of Marseilles is magnificent. It is a gleaming white city on a semicircle of bare hills. The Nacebiere, the city’s principal thoroughfare, continues to be one of the great avenues of the world. Part of the University of Aix-en-Provence is now at Marseilles. A landmark of the Marseilles harbor is the Chateau d’lf — of Dumas’ Count of Monte-Cristo.
Lyons, the French call it Lyon, is another (great city. It is the capital of the Rhone Department, at the confluence of the Rhone and Saône rivers. Lyons leads Europe in silk and rayon production, and it is an industrial center of machinery, clothing and chemical industries. Its Stock Exchange was founded in 1508, the oldest in France. It has a fine university and excellent museums. As a gastronomical capital it has no equal.
Strasbourg, capital of Bas Rhin (170,000 inhabitants) is the intellectual and commercial center of Alsace. This is where the famous goose-liver pate is made and where Gutenberg invented the printing press. Strasbourg is proud of a lovely Roman Catholic Cathedral which was begun in 1015 and completed in 1459. It is a masterpiece of Rhenish architecture with a single spire 466 feet high and with a famous astronomic clock installed
in 1574.
Bordeaux with 240,000 inhabitants is an active port in the Atlantic accessible to ocean-going ships. It is the center of wine produced in the Bordelais region—Mecloc, Graves and Sauterne—dotted with chateaux which give their names to many vineyards.
Something For All
Not content to show off her own charming self, France has organized for this summer a series of activities—from motor rac-ing-to Mozart — to tempt just about any traveler. There is not a region of this tourist country par excellence that is not preparing some of its artistic festivals or its folklore celebrations.
Those who want music and drama will find no fewer than thirty-six festivals in as many different cities and resorts, from May to September. Mozart and his music will be all over France in this, his 200th anniversary year. Music and drama festivals in Bordeaux; Paris International Theatre Festival in Strasbourg, Prades, and Aix-en-Provence.
Summer courses will be given by various French universities. Rennes University will hold its sessions in French language and literature at St. Malo from July 16 to Aug. 11. The University of Bordeaux will have summer school at Pau in the Pyrenees from July 16 to Aug. 26, while the University of
Pan Aufm kam
Morid	Airways Teacher
Page 5
Lille will have a school-by-the-sea at Bou-logne-sur-Mer from July 4 to Aug. 28.
For the sport minded traveler there will be some fifty races and rallies. The international French championship tennis matches are scheduled for early June at the Roland Garros Stadium in Paris.
France’s more famous historic buildings which have been around for quite a few centuries and are now classed as national monuments, will again be on special display. The great chateaux of the Loire—Azay-le-Rideau, Beaugency, Blois, Chambord, Che-nonceaux, Loches, and Villandry—will be floodlighted evenings during the summer and early fall. While buildings and gardens
are illuminated, special music and recited texts will recall episodes in their past history. The great palace of Versailles will be, of course, as splendid as ever.
There, in a nutshell, is an outline of a country about which thousands of volumes have been written—books where one can find everything that is France, a country of liberty and tolerance where people may think and act as they please, and respect other people’s rights. All nationalities are welcome in France. Americans never fail to enjoy their hospitality to the point that one may say after a visit to that country— Chaque honime a deux patries, la sienne et puis, la France.
THE RIVIERA—This is France's playground. The picnikers in this photo are seated on a slope of La Turbie, overlooking the principality of Monaco and its harbor.
THE FRENCH ECONOMY
By
Lou A. Phillips
France is very different from the United States in many ways, but in one way it is very much the same. To cite some contrasts: France will never compete with America in bigness or in volume of production. There are no great distances in France such as in midwestern United States. There is no massiveness of terrain in France such as our Rocky Mountain Region. The French landscape is small in scale and extremely beautiful. French workmanship is keyed to self-expression with the emphasis on quality rather than quantity. What France has to offer is derived from the character of her people, which in turn, is derived from the land itself.
The one thing which the people of France and the people of the United States have in common, however, is much more important than material factors. It is a love of freedom and self-expression. Our economies are different. Our methods of solving economic and governmental problems are different. Our ways of life are different. But two people with a common love of freedom
will always be able to find a meeting ground for mutual cooperation.
France entered written history in the year 53 B.C. when Cleopatra was sixteen years old. In that year, Caesar, writing an account of his campaigns in Gaul, mentioned a tribe of Parisii living in a town which he called Lutetia situated, on the present island of La Cité in the Seine. In 53 B.C. Caesar held an important meeting of chieftains in Lutetia and in the next year the Roman Legions won a battle on the Seine where the Eiffel Tower now stands. The Parisii stayed on and in the Fifth Century Lutetia began to be called Paris. Conquerors came and went — the Romans, the Huns, the Franks, the Norsemen, the English and- the Germans, but the Parisians have stayed on in almost the same place for twenty centuries. There is no “new” or “old” Paris. Permanence in the midst of - change, and continuity of place and purpose form the real spirit of the Paris which is now the Capital and chief commercial city of France.