November-December, 1948
of the country. New Zealand is linked with Australia by the flying boat service of Tasman Empire Airways which normally makes three return trips fortnightly between the two countries. New Zealanders had to await the ability of airplanes to master ocean distances before they could win themselves a place on the map of world airways and are quite enthusiastic over it. Pan American World Airways maintains a Clipper Service between the west coast of the United States and Auckland via Hawaii; Canton Island; the Fiji Islands; and New Caledonia. The trip takes forty flying hours and is flown twice a month. Travel by sea takes three weeks and is available only every third week wThile cargo ships are scheduled only once a month. Although commercial air services were suspended in 1941 due to outbreak of war, Pan American continued to operate throughout the Pacific for the Naval Air Transport Service and services were resumed in May 1946 with thirty-eight passenger Douglas type Clippers.
What Awaits You
Mr. and Mrs. Down-Under are very hospitable. They enjoy visitors in their country and guests in their homes. They are very much like us in many ways—direct and quizzical. They work hard and play hard and are intensely democratic, proud and independent. Their pioneers, like ours, were willing to leave the Old World and improve their fortunes by emigrating to a new country and their financiers were willing to risk capital in the exploitation of a new land.
PAN A/MElirCAN
World A/rhavs Teacher
During the War American soldiers were based in New Zealand until the fighting moved northward. With little factory industries to organize the Dominion nevertheless equipped her own men with the most modern of equipment and adapted her food production to meet Allied needs. The Islands were also used as a training base and as a recuperation center from tropical fighting.
Recreational opportunities in New Zealand are many. The hills and mountains which form a spine right down the country make it a good place for climbing, hiking and skiing. Sixteen of South Islands snowcapped Alps attain a height of over 10,000 feet. Mount Edmont, an extinct volcano with a symmetrical cone of over 8,000 feet is a winter paradise for ice climbers, skilled ski-swoopers, photographers and artists.
One of the most curious and perhaps the best known attractions of New Zealand are its springs of boiling water bubbling up frcm depths of boiling mud and it is not uncommon to see rural Maori housewives cooking dinner out-of-doors in a pot over such a spring.
New Zealand has fishing streams reminiscent of those of Maine and Canada where salmon and trout abound. Fishing is enjoyed all along the coasts, in the harbors and in the many large fresh water lakes. Hunting is a favorite sport with red deer, wild pigs and rabbits available in large numbers. The kiwi, the bird that doesn’t fly and the emblem animal of New Zealand, leads a secretive life in the native bush. Game and domestic
11
animals in New Zealand are imported such as England’s pint-sized porcupine and Australia’s gentle long-tail opossum.
New Zealanders love games. Wrestling, rugby (football), cricket, basketball, golf, swimming, rowing and sailing are all favorites. The oldest sport is horse racing which is actually an industry as well. Within a year of the first pioneer landing, a racing meet was held and about four years later the importation of thoroughbred stock began. At Christmas, New Year’s and Easter in particular, and generally throughout the year, in country and metropolitan areas, New Zealanders flock to race courses in thousands.
New Zealand for many years was referred to as “forever England”. However World War II opened the eyes of many of its citizens to the fact that their land would have to depend on United States strength rather than on the British Navy to uphold its territorial integrity. Although economic ties with the United Kingdom are still strong, New Zealand has developed closer relations with the United States and is participating more in the affairs of the South Pacific as part of that regional unit. The Dominion is developing an individuality and tradition all its own. Just as the Thirteenth Century saw the Maoris discover New Zealand, the Twentieth Century has seen New Zealanders rediscover their own land. And for any people enjoying the world’s greatest expectancy of life and its lowest death rate the future holds much promise.
OVER THE WORLD
(Continued from page 2)
Aviation writing is one of the newest specialties in the scribbler’s craft. It is generally considered to date from the trans-Atlantic flying era of 1926, ’27 and ’28 or thereabouts. Writers had written about aviation before. The first flight by the Wright Brothers at Kitty Hawk in 1903 was reported, and the scant attention paid to the report by newspapers throughout the country is positively incredible in the hindsight we enjoy today.
Lindbergh’s flight to Paris touched off a new interest in aviation in 1927, provided the impetus for investment of capital and brains that brought the aviation industry we know today, and brought about specialization in aviation writing.
Names of some of these writers may be familiar by-lines to readers of World Airways Teacher. The Lindbergh flight, for example, was covered by W. W. Chaplin of the Associated Press (now an N.B.C. reporter), Lauren D. Lyman of the New York Times, Francis Walton of the N. Y. Herald Tribune and C. B. Allen of the old New York World. (Allen now is a member of the Washington staff of the Herald Tribune.) Later on Devon Francis was aviation editor of the A.P. Rex Cleveland became aviation editor of the Times, and later came Fred Graham and John Stuart. On the Llerald Tribune now are Ansel E. Talbert and Gill Robb Wilson. A veteran
among aviation editors is Max Cook of the Scripps Howard papers. Another veteran is Justin Bowersox of the Kansas City Star. Still another is Frederick R. Neely, once aviation editor of the Evening and Sunday Star in Washington, D. C., now aviation editor of Collier’s.
Acknowledged dean of west coast aviation
DEER FLIES—PAA Stewardess Phyllis M. Hollowell and the deer which New Jersey school children sent to Uruguay.
writers is Howard Waldorf. Mention of aviation trade journals brings to mind such names as George McLaughlin, Wayne W. Parrish and W. S. Friedman.
How many of the names do you recognize?
And who do you think should have been listed and was not? We’re sure we'll get some irate letters saying that so-and-so has done just as much, and just as good, aviation reporting as any of those named, and if so, the letters probably will be right, because there now are hundreds of excellent aviation writers.
Most of them belong to the Aviation Writers Association, generally abbreviated to AWA and pronounced AW-WAH, and that includes your World Airways Teacher editor by the way.
If your favorite aviation writer is not among those present above, please write us about him or her and we’ll accord due recognition in the next issue.
Deer Flies to Uruguay
An unusual passenger aboard a Flying Clipper departing Miami recently was a young tame deer from New Jersey.
Clippers have carried bear cubs, monkeys, cattle, race horses, bees, Amazon flies (to wage war against the sugar cane borers in the Windward Islands) fruit-fertilizing wasps and other strange creatures, but this was the first time a Clipper had ever taken a deer to South America.
The deer was a gift from school children in New Jersey to the children of LTruguay.
G.G.