Pan American
2	World Airways Teacher	November-December, 1948
SEE""'*' Pan American	(¿Ètj
^ World Airways Teacher '—'
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
MAIL BAG...
Gentlemen:
I acknowledge, with thanks, the receipt of the September-October issue of PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER. It is an item that is eagerly sought for by pupils and the dog-eared condition of back issues is indicative of its use. Thank you.
We would appreciate receiving a copy of the index covering past issues.
Merryl Rentschler Hamburg, Penna.
Gentlemen:
Splendid! An index for my files of Pan American World Airways Teacher is just what I’ve needed. Will you send me a copy which I shall place in our library as my copies of the magazine are to be made available thru that medium.
Please send me also the study unit “Let’s Fly to Europe” for the benefit of my European History Class.
Your splendid article on Pakistan in the current issue is a fine supplement to our text and the best material we have yet seen on the present day situation.
Ella L. Vinal Scituate, Massachusetts
Dear Sir :
Please accept my sincere thanks to you for your kindness in sending me such a complete set of visual aid materials for my classes in South American history. I assure you that I shall use all of the materials you sent me and that I shall be pleased to give full credit for them to Pan American. It is good to see such a large corporation so interested in promoting international understanding to a degree quite beyond the dictates of mere commercial policy.
Earl A. Weis, S.J. Cincinnati 2, Ohio
Gentlemen:
The September-October 1948 copy of the World Airways Teacher, the index, and a number of illustrated pamphlets on the countries of the world serviced by the Flying Clippers, arrived this morning.
Thanks for this material. It will be of interest and use to our teachers and student body.
The article on Pakistan is the kind we need to keep us up to date and help us to interpret current events. Thanks.
Georgia Mechling Butler, Penna.
Bargain Air Fares
Good news for teachers who like to travel is to be found in recent announcements of bargains in air travel on global air routes.
Pan American World Airways for years has offered a discount on round trip fares.
This discount of 10 per cent is granted on a round trip, on a circle trip (like a trip around South America starting and ending at Miami), or on “open jaw” itinerary (an example would be a trip from New Orleans through Central America, around South America and return to Miami).
Also, a number of “short limit excursion fares” are available—for round trips between New York and San Juan, between Miami and Havana, between Miami and Nassau, between Balboa and Kingston, between Balboa and San Jose (Costa Rica) and an open jaw between New York and Miami via San Juan.
The real bargains, however, have been announced only recently. First came the one way tourist service fare between New York and San Juan. This fare is $75—a reduction of $58 from the regular $133 one-way Clipper fare. It was made possible by increasing the passenger capacity and eliminating a few extras in passenger service. DC-4 type Clippers are used, and they have been fitted out to carry 63 passengers instead of the customary 52.
Next came the excursion fares for trans-Atlantic travel via PAA. The reduction is 25 per cent from the round trip fare, which already was a 10 per cent reduction from two one way fares. Introduction of the 25 per cent discount cuts the cost of a round trip fare by Clipper from New York to London and return from $630 to $466.60. It is stipulated only that the trip must be completed within 60 days. Similarly reduced excursion fares are available on round trips between the U. S. and Eire, the United Kingdom, Europe, Central Africa, South Africa, the Middle East and India.
Along with this came the announcement that the cost of a berth for the trans-Atlantic trip would be $25, lowest airline sleeper fare in the history of trans-Atlantic aviation. The cost previously was $100.
Still another bargain fare was introduced on PAA’s Alaska service. The winter rate to Alaska, available until March 15, is 25 per cent less than the regular round trip fare, which itself is 10 per cent less than two one way fares.
For the summer months, there usually are special low rates to points in Latin America. In 1947 PAA offered a thirty per cent dis-
count to certain areas in Latin America; in 1947 special rates were adopted for summer travel on a series of specified trips —with the savings approximating thirty per cent under regular fares. The basis for excursion fares in 1949 has not been announced, but it is regarded as practically a certainty that there will be such opportunities again next summer.
Suggestion from IATA
As Director General of the International Air Transport Association, usually called IATA, Sir William Hildred is in a uniquely well placed position to observe developments in air transport throughout the world, and to offer suggestions about its future.
In an address at the fourth annual meeting of the association in Brussels Sir William urged vigorous action to develop “second class” international air service. He asserted that “an enormous and practically unlimited passenger market has not yet been tapped because it cannot afford the present rate structure.”
“I have long felt,” Sir William said, “that IATA members might consider, as the ships and railways do, different grades of service, stripped down austerity services, as well as services offering luxury and comfort.”
Steps toward the development of such services already have been taken, as reported above under the heading “Bargain Air Fares,” more of the same might well prove to be the answer to pleas by teachers that they want to travel, and want to go by air, but can’t afford it. We’d like to hear from teachers on this subject, and we’d like, with their permission, to print some of their letters?
Where Does Aviation News Come From?
Has it ever occurred to you that news of aviation developments is available to the reading public just about as rapidly as the developments take place?
Except for matters that are held in confidence because of military security, you hear of new airplanes, speed records, developments in jet propulsion etc. etc. the day after they happen or the day when their worth is demonstrated. Within a few days or weeks you can obtain as much scientific detail as you care (and are qualified by background knowledge) to absorb.
This news is collected and written for you by several hundred reporters and editors, and brought to you by daily newspapers, the radio, magazines and aviation trade journals.
(Continued on page 11)