November-December, 1948
Pm American
World Alrhaye Teacher
3
AN AIR
VIEW OF URUGUAY TODAY
by Enrique Portes
PUNTA DEL ESTE—Uruguay is famous throughout the world for its beaches and resorts. Punta del Este, 100 miles east of Montevideo, is a curved finger of land offering ocean bathing on one side and bay bathing on the other.
As an air traveler of today, you will be able to see from your Pan American Clipper a wonderful view of the capital of Uruguay. Landing at Carrasco, Montevideo’s airport and one of the largest and most modern in South America, you will be in the heart of the city in a few minutes. At once, you will feel at home. Polite officials, fair customs, fine hotel accommodations, tourists information—everything indicates that you are a welcome guest in Uruguay.
If you arrive there during the summer, you will see from your plane the rolling-plains bright with purple flowers and green grass that grows tall as a man’s head. Now in Montevideo the endless pampa is no more. Instead you see proud skyscrapers, palatial hotels, imposing government buildings—all speaking the language of progress and solid conviction in the future.
“To improve oneself is to live,” a philosophical apothegm from the pen of José Enrique Rodô, Uruguay’s man of letters, would seem to have become, whether by coincidence or conscious intent, a key to the explanation of why and how the smallest of the South American Republics has come to occupy a distinguished place among the nations of the world.
From the beginning of their political life, the people of Uruguay have never shown lack of daring to blaze new trails, to experiment boldly with changes in social, political and economic structure and method which held promise of improvement.
After José Artigas, their national hero, had freed Uruguay in 1828, the country—as most of the others in Latin America—sank into a bloody civil war. “Blancos,” and “Colorados”—two political parties—leaped at each other’s throat. But those are things of the past in Uruguay today. She has done wonders in late years. Her people have one of the highest literate ratings in the hemisphere, the schools are excellent. Like the United States, Uruguay has profited from immigration.
Uruguay has produced a great statesman —José Batlle. When he died a few years ago, he was acclaimed as one of the most remarkable citizens of the Americas. In the domain of social reform Batlle initiated legislation which would be considered audacious anywhere. He brought about the end of capital punishment, introduced the eight-hour day for workers. To Batlle is largely due the suppression in Uruguay of bull-fighting, cock-fighting and other diversions involving cruelty to animals. And he did more than any other to promote clean elections. But this was not enough. He also put through political reforms which seem miraculous.
In 1903 Batlle became convinced that the main reason for the constant revolutions in Uruguay—as in other South American countries—was the great power wielded by the President, which tempted those reaching that high office to keep it as long as they could, in defiance of constitution, Congress and public opinion. So Batlle drafted a new constitution, abolishing the job of President. This was too much even for his most ardent admirers. It was modified, retaining the
presidency, but vesting most of the powers in an executive council. In this form the new constitution was adopted. One of the most important clauses provided that no President, after serving one four-year term, could serve until eight years had elapsed. It also forbade running for a third term.
Has it worked out? Generally, yes. There was, of course, one attempt to alter it by force. In the end, Bathe’s idea prevailed.
Montevideo Awaits You
With a population of about two and one half million, Uruguay is the most densely populated, per square mile, of all the American Republics. About 800,000—one third of the entire country—live in Montevideo.
The origin of the name “Montevideo,” has been the subject of much speculation. Whether or not it is well founded, the story has charm. It is said that the word originated in the expression used by a lookout on one of Magellan’s ships as it sailed into the Rio de la Plata on January 15, 1520. The first object to attract the lookout’s attention was the monte or hill, and he is said to have exclaimed, “Montem video”— I see a mountain. But why in Latin ? Magellan himself was Portuguese. Latin was not in general use among adventurers—less among sailors. Others say the lookout was Portuguese, and on seeing the hill called out, “Monte vide eu.” Experts today point out that this is not Portuguese, and that the name arose out of an attempt to pronounce certain abbreviations which appeared in old manuscripts, describing the region. Whatever the origin of its name, the city of
Montevideo has become world famous as one of the most important in the continent.
Montevideo faces both the ocean and La Plata River. The chief commercial and government district covers an entire peninsula that juts well out into the water. Upon the ocean side the shore recedes' abruptly northward for a short distance, and here can be found the pleasant inlets that are so famous as pleasure resorts. Its broad, well-paved and well-lighted streets are lined with impressive business structures and elegant dwellings, while at intervals there are large, open squares within which are gardens filled with exquisite flowers. Diagonal boulevards criss-cross the city.
There are three well-defined districts of Montevideo. The Ciudad Vieja (Old City), on the peninsula, is the commercial and financial center. The Plaza Constitución is the original square of the city and is located in the center of the district on the Avenida 18 de Julio, the principal thoroughfare, which was named to commemorate the day the Uruguayan constitution was adopted, July 18, 1830. Bordering the Plaza are the Cathedral and the Cabildo or City Hall. Once used as a police building, the Cabildo later acquired the prestige of becoming the seat of the legislative assembly. Centering the Plaza Independencia, in the downtown district, is a heroic monument to General José Artigas, the Liberator of Uruguay.
The Ciudad Nueva, in which most of the modern architectural development has taken place, includes the splendid buildings of the National Government, office buildings and churches. Special mention should be madq