Pan American
8	Would Alb ways Teacher	November-December, 1948
NEW ZEALAND
(Continued from page 1)
personal representative of the King and is appointed by him on the advice of and after consultation with the New Zealand Government. He does not actively govern any more than the King governs, but in his person he does incorporate the executive power of the State and his signature affixed to acts of Parliament and orders-in-council is still important as the formal expression of legislative or executive decisions.
In the execution of the powers and authorities vested in him, the Governor-General is guided by, and acts solely on, the advice of an Executive Council which is formed by the leader of the majority party from the ranks of that group. The British Government cannot tax New Zealanders, declare war, make peace, or even in wartime dispose of their army without prior consent.
Ultimate legislative authority rests in a Parliament consisting of two chambers: a Legislative Council or Upper House, and a House of Representatives or Lower House.
At present there are 39 members in the Upper House although their actual number may vary. Appointed for seven years by the Governor-General on the advice of his responsible ministers, their position is analogous to the House of Lords in England, in that they have no power to initiate or amend legislation imposing taxation or affecting revenue. Other legislation may be initiated or amended in the Council but bills are generally introduced in the Lower House. Prior to 1941 women were not eligible for appointment to the Legislative Council when the restriction was removed. Two women were appointed in 1946.
There are ninety members in the House of Representatives of whom four are Maoris. General elections are held at three year intervals with few exceptions. Registration is compulsory and all citizens over twenty-one who have lived in New Zealand for one year and in a particular electorate for three months may vote.
If the House of Representatives and the Legislative Council cannot reach agreement over a piece of legislation, the Bill lapses for that particular session. Irreconcilable difference in a further session is provided for constitutionally by a joint meeting and majority vote of the two Houses, but this provision has never been utilized. Normally one session is held every year, beginning in June or July and finishing in October or November, although short ’ sessions are sometimes held in February or March. (Because of its position south of the equator, New Zealand’s seasons are exactly opposite of those of the United States.)
In practice, the people of New Zealand enjoy one of the most progressive governments in the world and the country is often referred to as the laboratory for world sociological experiments. The Dominion was the first to give the vote to women; establish old age pensions; introduce industrial arbitration; the eight-hour day; the forty-hour week; social security for the unemployed, sick, widows, orphans; free hospital service or medical attention; and free dental care and milk for school children.
SOUTH ISLAND—Much of the coast line is “rock bound” like this section between
Mahitaki and on South Island.
Farming And New Zealand
New Zealand is a pastoral and agricultural land. Successful farming depends both on the natural fertility of soil together with management methods adopted to retain and improve fertility and as a country, New Zealand is specially favored for primary production. Its soil is very fertile and the numerous streams intersecting the land present to the farmers a great potential source of cheap power. In addition, because of its mild climate, animals can be left outdoors at all seasons of the year. Where suitable lowland was covered with native bush fern, New Zealanders cleared the acreage and planted it with English grass for sheepbreeding purposes. The United States imports considerable quantities of grass seed each year. This combination of good grass and breeding animals enables the country to produce and export economically large quantities of meat, wool and dairy produce.
Approximately 43 million acres are under occupation of which V/z million acres are in pasture of various types and 1-1/3 million acres are devoted to annual crops of which about half are cereals and half are fodder crops. The pasture land and fodder crops support 32 million sheep and 4Yz million cattle including 1J4 million dairy cows, Y million pigs and Yz million horses. There are 75,000 engaged in dairy farming and 35,000 in sheep farming. This together with other types of primary producers account for 37% of the total population. In addition, a good proportion of so-called industrialists, financiers and administrators spend their time almost entirely in the different processes of getting produce from farms to consumers.
The Land Of The Sheep And The Cow
The breeding and management of livestock is the chief occupation of New Zealand farmers. The first real prosperity of the pioneers, and the beginning of the pastoral
industry, was found in keeping sheep for wool. This industry has steadily evolved and expanded from the earliest days of settlement. Wool has been the staple export for the greater part of the country’s history and has contributed more to the revenue of the nation than any other single product.
Today sheep farming is an efficient, scientific business with flocks averaging about one thousand animals. New Zealand is seventh in the list of world flock owners and fourth among world producers.
The Dominion supplies one-fourth of the world’s wool, making it one of the world’s largest exporters, exceeded only by Australia and Argentina. Only six or seven million pounds of the 320 million pounds produced are absorbed in domestic woolen mills. The United Kingdom is the chief buyer and acts as distributor reselling one-third to Europe and North America.
In 1882 the first successful cargo of frozen mutton was sent to England. With refrigeration, the profits of selling meat and dairy products abroad became surer and the demand for land in the country increased. More and more entered farming and the country gradually assumed its present character of a land of small or moderate sized farmers.
New Zealand’s largest industrial plants are freezing works. Meat is frozen at the works and taken in specially insulated vans to wharfs and then to ship freezing chambers. The preponderance of lamb occurs because beef is somewhat spoiled by freezing and will keep fresh for a lesser time than lamb when chilled. New Zealand is the world’s largest exporter of lamb and mutton with almost all of it going to the United Kingdom.
During the last twenty years dairying has become one of the chief industries of New Zealand. In the beginning experts from Denmark and Canada were called on for advice on cheese and butter-making and