4
of the new Legislative Palace, a magnificent structure built wholly of native marble, stone, granite and fine woods. There you can see also the halls of the University of Montevideo with its Departments of Medicine, Dentistry, Law, Architecture, Engineering, and Veterinary Science; the Chemical Institute, the Pedagogical and National Museums, and the Museum of Fine Arts. The Palacio Municipal, which occupies two blocks fronting on the Avenida 18 de Julio, is most impressive.
The third district is residential, containing lovely homes with flowering gardens. The flowers of Montevideo are one of its principal attractions. The tourist will find an abundance of flowers in the famous Prado, a popular rendezvous for the inhabitants of the capital. There are, of course, many other parks such as the Allies Park, the Botanical Garden, the Zoological Park, etc.
Montevideo’s theatrical and concert season is brilliant, the city life gay. Books, philosophy, and music mean much to her people. Modern music is heard more often than gaucho songs, for Uruguay is much more conscious of the present—and of the future —than of the past.
Montevideans are proud of their arts. During winter season—Uruguayan winters occur during North American summers— there are as many as five formal intellectual gatherings an evening. Favorite local exercise is the “acto de homenaje,” a testimonial audition of many speeches in honor of almost any prominent man who has recently distinguished himself by finishing a book, returning from the United States or—as a Uruguayan friend put it: “leaving this world for the next.” There are good radio programs, especially musical. Dramatic radio programs have a tremendous popularity, as Luis Ferreira—a radio' writer and producer who spent over two years in the United States—told me recently.
In arts, the Uruguayan Government is the biggest impresario. Through its agency SODRE (Servicio Oficial de Difusión Radio-Eléctrica) it operates a radio station, opera, symphony, schools of ballet arid dramatics, a theatre opened in 1905 by Sarah Bernhardt, and a cinema division which sponsors a seven-months’ annual season from its library of French, Russian, American and German film classics.
Montevideo is the only big city in Uruguay. All the rest of its more important towns come nowhere near the capital in size, they are country centers, scattered about amid the vast plains of which the Republic is almost entirely composed. Montevideo stands out—beautiful, serene, friendly—as a perfect example of Spanish American hospitality.
Uruguay’s Resorts
The capital of Uruguay has become one of the most popular resorts in South America. The resorts begin in Montevideo itself. The Rambla avenue follows the river shore from beach to beach until the road moves inland and the river flows into the ocean. Every part of the Rambla bears a different name. At one point it is Rambla Sud America, at another Gran Bretaña, then República, Argentina, Presidente Wilson, Repúb-
Pa\ American
World Airways Teacher	November-December, 1948
GRENADIERS—The colorfully uniformed Grenadiers serve as guards at public buildings in Montevideo.
lica de Chile. Plans are under way to continue this international tribute as far as Atlantida, a resort further along the coast.
This road, bright and clean, moving a'bout the contours of the various bays, was made for streaming lines of automobiles. It feeds the crowded beaches of Ramirez, Pocitos, Malvin, and the exclusive Carrasco and Miramar. Each of these resorts enjoyed at a time the greatest popularity until a more ambitious group planned the development of Carrasco. A French architect was engaged to plan the resort and a palatial casino-hotel was built facing the water.
Carrasco is Argentine and Uruguayan society taking its ease discreetly. In summer, the beach begins to fill about eleven-thirty. Umbrellas, beach robes, fancy bags, sun oil are indispensable. Cocktails take time. Then a siesta is slept. About five, life begins again with horseback riding along the beach and automobile driving toward a change of scenery. Night involves dining at ten, eleven or twelve, dancing and participation around roulette tables, where play achieves the tempo of European life. Politeness, orderliness and everything that assures one respect is fundamental at Carrasco. The young set is very young—always under the watchful eye of an aunt or mother.
Miramar—a new resort—is a modern annex of Carrasco. Its hotel is spacious and elegant. For strange reasons, this wonderful place was closed for some time. Past Miramar the beach opens up in a long stretch of sand all suitable for further development.
Many resorts have flourished between Montevideo and Punta del Este. There is Atlantida, not so formal as Carrasco or so smart as Punta. Golf, horseback riding, bicycling, tennis and attractive drives are found in great numbers. Then you will find Floresta, peaceful and charming. After the quiet of these places the splendor of Piriapolis appears. There are more than sixty hotels where tourists from Montevideo
and Argentina enjoy their vacations. It is a center of fashions, styles and manners.
The next point of interest along the same thoroughfare is Maldonado, with narrow streets, walled gardens and sleepy houses—a complete contrast to Piriápolis. From Maldonado’s harbor you can go by boat to Lobos Island, which takes its name from the thousands of sea lions draped about its beaches. They provide Maldonado with one of its industries and accounts for sealskins being included in Uruguay’s list of exports. One of the most powerful lighthouses in South America has been built on Lobos Island.
After Maldonado, Punta del Este appears. It is a narrow peninsula, crowded with hotels, houses and cottages, the setting of one of the gayest resorts on the hemisphere. The heavy surf of the Atlantic has developed a new sport here. People tackle the waves with surfboards just as in Hawaii.
Summing up, Uruguayan resorts have built the third industry in the country— tourism. It is not rare, therefore, to draw 145,000 tourists during the summer, a figure which was reached during the 1947-1948 season.
Sports in Uruguay
Uruguayans enjoy all kinds of sports. One of the most popular is soccer, in which national teams usually excel ; they have won Olympic championships on several occasions. One of the largest soccer fields is located in the Parque José Batlle y Ordóñes. It is the Centenary Stadium and was inaugurated in 1930. Teams from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Mexico and other countries furnish regular competition to the Uruguayans.
Polo is also very popular. It was introduced by the English at the beginning of the present century. Today there are military and civilian teams, national and foreign teams, which compete on the large playing fields owned by the Sayago Polo Club. Because Uruguayan horses make excellent polo ponies, the sport was readily adopted, and today great numbers of fans enjoy the games. Uruguayan summers occur during North American winters, and this explains why during January and February international horse races reach the largest crowds at the Hipódromo de Maroñas at that particular time.
Tennis matches, yacht and auto races, boxing, speed boat regattas and golfing are some of the many other sports with which the Uruguayans—and you—may find pleasure.
Mild in temperature and full of iodine, the water is ideal for sea-bathing. This is the fortunate result of the mixture of two sea currents : the polar stream from the south, and the warm stream that runs from the north along the Brazilian seacoast. Also, the two currents have created a fisherman’s paradise in the bays and around the promontories of the coastline. These waters—considered among the world’s great fishing grounds—teem with mullet, sole, anchovy, mackerel, whiting, corvina, conger eel, dogfish and, we might add, sharks. Modern transportation lines, paved highways and air routes make the Uruguayan Riviera an unrivaled playground for the inhabitants of the Western Hemisphere.