November-December, 1948
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
9
grading with the result that today the Dominion is second only to Denmark in cheese production and the world’s largest exporter of butter. Today every phase of dairy production and factory processing is closely supervised resulting in uniform high quality products.
Since the 1930’s growing of pigs for export of chilled and frozen pork and bacon has increased with about 80% going to the United Kingdom. Pigs are raised almost entirely on dairy farms as they are used to convert separated milk, buttermilk and whey into marketable products.
Of New Zealand grains, wheat is the most important. Other crops include maize, oats (used for the large racing industry), and barley. The nation is practically self-sufficient in fruit and vegetables such as apples, pears, potatoes, and citrus fruits. Almost two-fifths of the apple crop is exported. During the recent war, vegetable and fruit dehydration and canning developed, sparked by the need to feed the Pacific Armed Forces of the Allies.
Manufacturing And Mining
Manufacturing in New Zealand has developed during the last thirty years until today it accounts for about 20% of the working population. The most important manufacturing in the Dominion is not true manufacturing but a by-product of farming such as meat freezing and preserving, butter making, condensed milk preparation, sawmilling, light and power. All steel for heavy industry as well as many manufactured products must be imported from Great Britain and Australia. However New Zealand agricultural implements and machinery are much in demand in Australia, South Africa and South America. Other manufactured prod-
ucts produced in the Dominion ancillary to agricultural and pastoral industries are barrels, rope, flax, and packs for shipping wool. Production of consumer products includes cracker, paint, varnish, furniture, soap and candle factories.
Coal is the leading mineral and although supply is limited there is enough for domestic needs for a good many years. Certain types are imported from Australia however. With moderate coal supplies and no oil, the numerous swift rivers, heavy rain, high altitude lakes and waterfalls assume a great value as a potential source of hydroelectric power in addition to their scenic attractiveness. Electricity is a major factor in the national economy and an important impetus in the dairy industry. Its low cost means less farm drudgery as it is most important for farm equipment, milking machines, cream separators, shearing machines, milking sheds and household worksavers. Electricity is available to 93% of the population making New Zealand sixth in electrical consumption in the world.
Gold is the second most important mineral. Its importance however should be measured by its influence on history rather than by the value of actual bullion available. During the gold rush days of the 1860’s thousands of prospectors who came to New Zealand in search of the precious metal stayed to farm and settle. Few other minerals are mined on a commercial scale although there are small deposits of iron, mercury, manganese ore, tungsten, sulphur and asbestos.
New Zealand And The World
Actually New Zealand’s primary industries have been developed for overseas markets, particularly the United Kingdom, and economic stability depends upon export trade in these commodities. Butter, cheese,
frozen meat and wool represent over 90% of the total annual value of the Dominion’s fo'reign trade with products of mines, fisheries, forests and agriculture accounting for most of the balance. Manufactures represent less than 2% of the total. In fact, New Zealand is said to exist in world markets only by virtue of its agricultural produce.
Although the total value of New Zealand’s commodity trade is not large in comparison to many other countries, it is the highest in the world on a per-capita basis. The United Kingdom normally absorbs over 80% of its exports and provides about 50% of its imports. Australia ranks next to the United Kingdom among British countries.
Wool is the only major New Zealand product finding important markets apart from the United Kingdom which takes about two-fifths of the total export volume. France, Belgium, Australia, United States, Canada, and the Netherlands buy the remainder. Some 65% of the country’s sheep skins are imported by the United States. In ordinary years, the United States sells in the vicinity of $40,000,000 worth of goods to New Zealand which is about 15% of its total purchases from abroad. Practically every type of American product is well and favorably known in the country with autos, timber, petroleum and allied products, radio and building material heading the list. Only 5% of New Zealand’s exports are purchased by the United States.
In general, apart from the United Kingdom, New Zealand buys more from other countries than she sells to them. The resulting debit balances are ultimately met from the Dominion’s sterling exchange funds held in London and its trade is concentrated mainly within imperial boundaries. A British preference tariff is applied to goods the produce or manufacture of all countries forming a part of the British Commonwealth while a general tariff rate is applied against products of all other countries.
Two Islands And Four Cities
Unlike many of the other Dominions such as South Africa and Australia, there is no city in New Zealand which dominates the whole country. Rugged terrain resulted in a peripheral pattern of settlement and during the early part of its history there was little inter-city communication. What did exist was carried on principally by coastal steamer. Today there are twenty-one ports of entry for customs purposes and a considerable degree of regionalism still exists. Rather more than one-third of the population lives in four urban centers of which three were founded by or with the assistance of the New Zealand Trading Company before it faded into' impotence—Wellington in, 1840 —Dunedin in 1848—and Christchurch in 1850. Auckland, the first seat of the Government, was founded in 1841.
Auckland and Wellington, with 173,000 and 264,000 people respectively, are the two largest cities of the country. Located on North Island, they have the best harbors and are centers of rail, sea and air communication. Both handle over two million tons of merchandise yearly. The great commercial houses of the nation are found in Auckland. Its capacious harbor is easily expansible and is the port of registry for a
AUCKLAND—When air service to New Zealand started in 1940 the Flying Clippers were flying boats. The picture shows a Clipper, below, and a boat then operated by Tarman Empire Airways on a route from New Zealand to Australia.