November-December, 1948
Aviation in Uruguay
Uruguay like other American nations has taken to the air with enthusiasm. Aviation plays a great part in her economic development. Pan American World Airways, of course, serves Uruguay on the main route between Buenos Aires and Rio de Janeiro. A North American can reach Uruguay within a day’s journey from the United States. Uruguay is also served by other air lines: Varig (Brazilian), Air France, British South America Airways, KLM (Dutch), Scandinavian Airlines System, and the local companies.
The national companies are Compañía Aeronáutica Uruguaya, S. A. (CAUSA), and Primeras Líneas Uruguayas de Navegación Aérea, S.E.M. (PLUNA). CAUSA was incorporated in Uruguay in 1936, and has operated an international service between Montevideo and Buenos Aires without interruption since 1938. Another route across the Rio de la Plata estuary between Colonia and Buenos Aires was added in 1940 to connect with a bus line to Montevideo. PLUNA is the only airline operating domestic service in Uruguay. It began operations in 1936, with regular flights between Montevideo and Salto.
Civil aviation is controlled by the Directorate of Civil Aviation which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Defense. The most important club is the Aero Club del Uruguay, which is affiliated with the Federation Aeronautique Internationale. It receives an annual subsidy from the Government, and had 750 paying members, three instructors and 15 light planes in 1946. During the same year there were 22 active air clubs in the country.
With all these air facilities it is no wonder that many a North American can spend his two-week vacation in Uruguay with every comfort.
Sources of Wealth
Uruguay is mainly a pastoral and agricultural country. The low, rolling prairies of the eastern and southern sections become in the north a more elevated region. Both sections produce luxuriant grass and are well suited for cattle breeding, sheep raising and agriculture. About four-fifths of the country is used for grazing. There are more than eight million head of cattle and about eighteen million sheep. The live stock is constantly being improved through the importation of purebred breeding animals. The Hereford and Shorthorn cattle breeds and the Lincoln, Romney March and Merino breeds of sheep are very popular in Uruguay.
Agriculture, though less important than the pastoral industry, has become the subject of great experiments in recent years. In 1946 Uruguay was confronted with the worst wheat crisis in its history, plagued by locusts and bad weather. In 1947, however, by planting thirty per cent more crops and using scientifically selected seed, Uruguay at the end of January 1948 harvested nearly 350,000 tons of wheat. This doubled the previous year’s production, leaving a one-third surplus for export. Much of the credit for this change must be given to President Tomás Berreta, the short-lived, but revered President of early 1947, who immediately upon his election visited the
Pa/v AmERfoi/v
World A/rhave Teacher
United States seeking aid in the way of farm machinery.
The processing industries of the Republic, which are centered around Montevideo, with others in Salto and Paysandú, are intimately connected with the pastoral and agricultural economy. The largest portion of the nation’s produce is brought to Montevideo by rail and highway for processing and export or local consumption. Cattle, sheep and hog slaughtering and meat packing are the main industries, followed by the processing of agricultural products, shipping and marketing. Large domestic and foreign meat packing corporations have installed large frigoríficos (slaughtering and freezing plants) at Montevideo. There are also saiaderos, plants devoted to the slaughter of cattle for the manufacture of jerked beef and canned meats. In many parts of the United States you may be able to buy canned beef “Industria Uruguaya.”
Important advances have been made in the manufacture of woolen textiles, furniture, bottles and glassware, paper and paper articles, soap, candy, enameled ware and
5
flour. The tanning industry, of course, is of great importance.
Uruguay along with many other Latin American countries has difficult problems to solve. Increased expenditures, higher wages, the presence of large amounts of foreign capital seeking employment and refuge in Uruguay, raised the means of payment to new heights. This, in the face of a still reduced volume of goods available in the market, acted to drive prices to extremely high levels.
There is something noble about this small nation, striving desperately for social perfection in the midst of a turbulent world. Uruguay seems to have no illusions of economic and political supremacy; her goal is to help the people. Universities and colleges are free, there is a medical organization that charges no fee. Health level of the population is higher than most South American countries.
The future outlook for the country is bright. Hydroelectrification of the Queguay River has been proposed. This would result in an additional 70 million kilowatts annu-
PLAZA INDEPENDENCIA—This is a street scene in the business section
of Montevideo.