Pam Amerecam
Wo Rio Airways Teacher
November-December, 1948
SHEEP—This flock is being mustered to
on North
majority of the Dominion’s vessels. The city’s floating dock was the salvation of many American vessels during the war.
Wellington, the second largest city of the country is the present seat of Government.
Its magnificent harbor is surrounded by hills on which are found the residential sections. The business district is concentrated in narrow streets on a strip of reclaimed land around the harbor. Parliament, ministers of the Crown, and headquarters of public service, as well as large import and export houses are located in Wellington. The American Consul-General and two Vice-Consuls in addition to the American Trade Commissioner have their offices there. Proud of its cultural achievements, Wellington’s Turnbull Library is unrivaled in the world for rare editions and hand-tooled leather books.
On South Island arc Christchurch with 150,000 people and Dunedin with 83,000 residents. In the early gold mining days Dunedin was the leading city in population, wealth and manufacturing. It is known as the Edinburgh of the South and its grey stone buildings bespeak the solid human masonry of Scottish virtues. Its port Chalmers is equally solid, respectable and conservative in appearance. The first University of the land was located in Christchurch. Today each of the four main cities have university-colleges offering general courses. Auckland specializes in architecture and engineering; Wellington in law and political science and administration; Dunedin (Otago) in medicine, dentistry and mining, and; Christchurch (Canterbury) in engineering and music. Each island has an agricultural college. All go to form the degree-granting University of New Zealand.
Christchurch is known as the Cathedral City and is the capital of the Canterbury plains, the nation's wheat belt and early sheep country. The city is a great emporium
be shorn on a Wairapapa sheep station Island.
for those who live either by wool or wheat and has large factories, shops and one of the best newspapers in the land. A hilly range separates the city and its port Lyttelton, and from the outskirts of the city the ranges of the South Island Alps can be seen. Of the four cities Christchurch most resembles England with its many Cathedrals, trees, streets, public gardens and ever recurring River Avon with raised bridges about every quarter of a mile. Christchurch has one of the finest art museums south of the equator.
Transportation------All Important
The development of agriculture in New Zealand has been closely linked to advances in transportation. The country’s scattered communities and isolated centers of population depend largely on an effective transport system to' give them a sense of economic unity with the rest of the country. Within the last few years the quicker interchange of goods and the greater mobility of population between town and country has become increasingly important.
New Zealand’s terrain has always made railroading a difficult and expensive engineering task. Therefore its 25,000 miles of railroad lines have been laid through the easiest country to the most convenient sea outlets, or along the coast. None are more than seventy-five miles from the sea. Trains are toy-like in appearance and run on narrow gauge tracks which wind around deep gorges and hair-raising precipices. It is now possible to travel from the far north to the southernmost tip with only the intervening passage of Cook Strait. Because of the enormous number of rivers there are 7,199 bridges of twenty-five feet or more in New Zealand and no one has ever counted the shorter ones or culverts.
Less spectacular than the railroads or bridges but just as necessary are the roads which feed railways and connect isolated settlements, carrying produce between farms, factories and markets. A characteristic of the Dominion’s roads is the service car, one of a fleet of large automobiles, smaller than a bus, which is used for both passengers and baggage.
Aviation has been of relatively recent growth. Until 1935 when an air service was begun across Cook Strait, activity consisted of two minor scheduled services, air taxi work and aero clubs. Once established, air transportation expanded rapidly and commercial air service is now operated by three companies covering the greater part
WOOL SHEARING—New Zealand supplies a fourth of the world’s wool and is one of the largest exporters of wool-exceeded only by Australia and Argentina.