Pa/v Amfrícaiv
November-Decembei-, 1948	WORLD AíRWAYS TEACHER
7
PARQUE BATLLE YORDONEY—This is one of many beautiful parks in Montevideo. The monument is La Carreta (The Cart) honoring Uruguay’s pioneers.
can also be found in Uruguay and Southern Brazil. Their ideas of life, love and society are all quite similar. We might as well, therefore, recall some of those features which make the gaucho a unique type in this continent.
The gaucho’s home was a little hut, roofed with straw. The walls were of sticks driven into the ground. It had neither doors nor windows. The main furniture was a cattle skull to sit on. He used a horn to drink water, a wooden spit for the roast, and a pot to heat water for the mate. Since roast meat was the only food eaten, the only utensil was a knife. Any parts of the cow not eaten were thrown out. For clothes the gauchos wore the poncho and the chiripá— a piece of coarse cloth coming down to the knees and tied at the waist by a broad sash, or tirador, adorned with silver coins. They also wore boots coming halfway up their legs. Around their heads was a vincha, or headband, and on the top of this, but pushed back, was a narrow-brimmed little hat, held in place by the barbijo, or strap, which went under the chin. Around their necks there was a handkerchief which served as dust screen or as water filter.
A gaucho’s skills had to do with riding, horsebreaking, cattle work and self-defense. He was supposed to find his way over the pampas. The pulpería, or country store, was his meeting place. There a game of cards or a horse race might be arranged. And since there was a guitar, he would usually sing his coplas and tristes. The following are typical gaucho songs:
All good girls are pursued
Even as tender little trees by the ants
Todas las buenas mozas son perseguidas
como arbolitos tiernos de las hormigas.
All men are devils
So women say
But they wait for the devils
To carry them away
El demonio son los hombres
Dicen todas las mujeres.
Y sólo están deseando que el demonio se las lleve.
The gaucho became a symbol of the national spirit and of the national achievement in the course of the 19th century. Thousands of books, poems and plays are written about him. This literary success of the gaucho as a character may be due in part to Uruguayan writers of the last and present centuries, such as Florencio Sánchez, Javier de Viana, Carlos Reyles, Elias Regules and others.
Does the gaucho exist today? The gaucho is no longer as he used to be. He has come to express in literature a romantic nostalgia for the past. Rubén Dario expressed very well the gaucho symbolism in one of his poems:
Who are you, solitary wanderer of the night ?
I am that Poesy which once reigned here,
I am the last gaucho who, departing forevermore,
Bears away the soul of our old land.
However the gaucho does not seem “departing”, he is very much alive in modern literature, music, art. The real gaucho long since disappeared, but the imaginary gaucho,
and the ideals he has come to typify, still live on.
“With liberty________”
“With liberty, we neither offend nor do we fear,” said the Uruguayan liberator Jose Artigas during the War of Independence. And this has been the Uruguayan slogan ever since. Uruguay has been called “social laboratory,” “the most liberal country in South America,” and “the friendliest people in the Southern Hemisphere.” It must be so because no visitor who' has been in that little country has said otherwise. Meet a Uruguayan and you know at once you have met a friend. This happy attitude
Dear Sir:
In addition to a scholarship granted last year by the Inter-American Law Institute to attend courses on American Law at the New York University School of Law, the Pan American World Airways System, gave me a travel scholarship. This covered my transportation from Recife to New York and back.
Once before, in September 1942, at the time of my active duty as an officer of the Brazilian Army Reserve, I had an opportunity to fly in a Panair plane, from Rio de Janeiro to Recife. Everything gave me then a reassuring sensation of safety—the way our plane was kept in permanent communication with control stations in the airports, the checkup during the landing stops, etc. At the same time there was constant and obliging care for the passengers, a very excellent luncheon and refreshments now and then not to be forgotten. Comfort, thus, in addition fi> safety.
My flight to the States and my return
must be the reason why 145,000 tourists visited Uruguay during the 1947-48 season, an increase of 20,000 over the previous year.
You will return from Uruguay admiring her simple and democratic way of life. You will remember that voting there is not only the privilege but the duty of adults of both sexes, and you will tell your friends that a citizen is fined for not exercising his political franchise.
A pioneer nation, Uruguay plans to go forward on the fine basis of progress established by her plainsmen and by her social and legislative pioneers.
Uruguay awaits you with a friendly smile of welcome.
from New York confirmed those impressions.
For all these reasons, in addition to the courteous solicitude of your personnel, from those who work at your ticket counters to those who man your planes, it is only fair to state that no> better standards in civil aviation can be found.
Very gratefully yours,
G. C. Paashaus Recife, Brazil.
Pan American World Airways Travel Fellowships, providing round trip transportation by Clipper between the United States and countries in Latin America are awarded each year to graduate students in the U. S. for travel to Latin America for a year of study in universities there, as well as to graduate students in Latin America for travel to' the United States.
These fellows are designated by the Institute of International Education, 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y., and inquiries should be directed to the Institute.
PAA TRAVEL FELLOW FROM BRAZIL WRITES...