Pav AmerrcA/v
6	World	Teacher	November-December, 1948
ally. An added source of food and revenue was initiated in 1947 when the S.O.Y.P. (Government Fishing Monopoly) made a survey for developing resources in the artificial lake created by the Rio Negro Hydraulic Power project. Uruguay is a progressive little country. Many of the world theories can be seen in their practical and operative roles in this charming South American country.
Education Flourishes
Uruguay is one of the most literate countries in South America. It is estimated that 65 per cent of the total population of 2,200,000 is literate. In Montevideo’s modern school system, there are about 1800 primary schools and about 100 intermediate schools. Private schools number more than 180.
The University of Montevideo comprises the schools of law, medicine, social science, dentistry, pharmacy, chemistry, engineering, architecture, economics, agriculture and veterinary medicine. The latter is regarded as a model of its kind in Latin America. The six normal schools offer a four-year general course which is followed by two years of intensive professional study. Graduates of the normal schools are required to take competitive examinations before receiving teaching appointments.
Physical and mental defectives are cared for in summer camps, in the open-air schools or institutions. Adult education is directed by a Committee on Cultural Extension, which tries to reach the rural and illiterate population through the radio and motion pictures. In this work it is helped by the government’s school of the air whose programs supplement the curriculum and open new horizons to pupil and teacher.
A Host of Brilliant Writers
Uruguay has produced a host of brilliant literary figures, a number of them women. Uruguayan women—and Latin American women for that matter—did not appear as writers until recently, perhaps because they were still too unsure of their place as writers and afraid tO' write sincerely. Romanticism did not give them the incentive to shake their slumber. Modernism and post modernism finally gave them a literary life of their own.
The first to emerge and herald the period of literary freedom was Maria Eugenia Vaz Ferreira (1875-1924). Then came Delmira Agustini (1887-1914) and Juana de Ibarbourou (1895- ). In Argentina, Al-fonsina Stormi (1892-1938), and in Chile Gabriela Mistral (1899-	) gave a new im-
petus to feminine poetry in South America. As a group, and in their own way, they were all rebellious. They did not openly reject the traditional restrictions of feminine life; they merely ignored them at the time of writing. They spoke of love, and of joy when it came to them, but more often of disillusion and thwarted lives.
Of the Uruguayans, Delmira Agustini was a poetess whose exalted youthful temperament made her life a tragedy. Juana de Ibarbourou, the youngest of the group, began her literary career as a happy rebel— her poetry had the youthful freshness of a wide field, but the passing of time brought her the melancholy of El afilador—the day, with its whetstone and its twelve silver knives, that cuts her wings. Today she is more tranquil in her poetry. She has now reached the calmer waters and sheltering harbor of religion.
One writer is outstanding in Uruguayan literature. He is José Enrique Rodo (1871-1917), who was mentioned at the
beginning of this article. Rodo is one of the great prose-writers of South America. His best known book is Ariel. Rodo developed from a literary critic into a moralist. His Ariel, a discourse in six parts, addressed to “the youth of America” (Spanish America), preaches fundamental truths, however obvious they may seem. He says there is always a new generation growing-up and “the seed of the word spoken at the right moment may beget immortal fruit.” He stressed the need of protecting the wholeness of the human personality against the encroachment of specialization or any other manner of narrowness, the lesson of Greece, with its full humanity; the faith in the democratic way of life, which, if rightly understood, acts as a safeguard to spiritual freedom. Ariel was widely read and discussed, for many years, throughout Latin America. Motivos de Proteo, another of Rodo’s books, is made up of connected essays and parables on the development of human personality; its leading motif is the unbounded possibility of renewal in the human spirit. Its philosophical basis in a sort of ethics of renewal is quite in keeping with Henri Bergson’s doctrine of “creative evolution.” Until 1914 Rodo kept his optimistic faith in the efforts of mankind in the direction of light and truth. He preached enthusiasm and hope and “the gift of youth,” but the European World War I shook his faith. In Florence (1916) he fancied a dialogue between Michelangelo’s David and Cellini’s Perseus in which these two embodiments of full and harmonious humanity ponder on the causes of the conflict and conclude that man has unmade himself.
Let us not conclude that Uruguay keeps clinging to her past glories in literature. Today there is a brilliant host of writers who would honor any country in this hemisphere.
The Uruguayan press is virile and progressive, free and informative. Some of these papers enjoy a continental acceptance. The most important are EL DIA, EL PAIS, LA TRIBUNA, MUNDO URUGUAYO (weekly), THE SUN, (daily, published in English), EL PUEBLO, EL DIARIO, LA MANANA. There are also weekly and monthly magazines and periodicals of general interest.
The Gaucho Uruguayo
Scattered over the great plains of Uruguay are estancias, or country houses, usually low-roofed structures, often standing with no other building within miles. Around these, and clustered about the crossroads stores, typical of rural Uruguay, may still be seen the gauchos, descendants of the original settlers—sturdy, rough, sun tanned individuals who have much in common with our cowboys. Like the latter, however they are not as picturesque in costume or habits as they used to be. Nevertheless, one may still see Uruguayan gauchos wearing bright-colored shirts and gay scarfs wrapped around their necks. Of an evening, they still congregate in towns, or outside the general stores, and dance, to native tunes. The gaucho dances go back to the days when their plains were without railways or roads.
Though in Argentina, gaucho legends are more popular, these cowboys of the pampas