Pan American
Hawaiian Islands ___________Worio Airways	Teacher^_________________3
PARADISE OF THE PACIFIC
By George Gardner
Hawaiians have every right to call their pleasant archipelago the Paradise of the Pacific.
Consider the climate. Average temperature in January is 71° ; in August 79°. Rainfall is generous. Fields and hillsides are a lush green the year round. Flowering plants, shrubs and trees are a riot of color, and one of the most vivid blossoms of all, the magnificent hibiscus, is Hawaii’s official flower.
Living is easy. Agriculture is the principal occupation. The “staff of life” in Hawaii is the taro, a tuber which grows underground or under water and which is steamed, peeled and pounded into poi, a starchy pastelike pudding which is a leading item in the Hawaiian diet. Pineapples from Hawaii are known and prized on the mainland of the United States and in many other parts of the world. The Hawaiians themselves enjoy other tropical fruits not well-known elsewhere because they are not easily shipped, including mangoes, papaya, star-fruit and tamarind.
But physical things do not add up to Paradise, and Hawaii has the other indispensable ingredient. It is a way of life which can be traced to the gentle tradition of the Polynesians who first settled in the islands, to the wisdom of its rulers when Hawaii had Kings, to the influence of Christian missionaries, to contributions from the cultures of more than a dozen nationalities represented in Hawaii’s melting pot of peoples, and to ideas of democracy which came naturally to the native Hawaiians and were strengthened by ideas from the mainland.
Where else would the traffic police paint cross hatched strips across the streets for pedestrians’ cross walks, adopt a rule that when a pedestrian is crossing in this zone the automobiles must stop and wait until the person on foot reaches the other side of the street, and find ready acceptance of such a procedure as a naturally courteous way of making the streets safe.
But if courtesy and consideration come naturally, they do not prevent the Hawaiians from being resourceful industrialists and astute traders. The industry and economy of Hawaii are discussed in another article in this unit, and the business success of the Hawaiians is one of the things to which they point in advancing their claim to statehood.
Yes, Paradise of the Pacific is maikai (good) as a second name for Hawaii.
But on December 7, 1941, it was no paradise. On that day Japanese bombs and torpedoes were destroying the Pacific fleet in Pearl Harbor, the military aviation facilities at Hickam Field, and other military installations, and War in the Pacific had begun.
With that memory seared in their minds, Hawaiians are ever conscious that they constitute a major outpost for national defense, and their fellow citizens on the mainland are gratefully aware of that situation too. This means also that Hawaii’s economy and its society are influenced in an important
manner by the presence of a large military and naval establishment.
Those of us who are “fellow-citizens on the mainland” are likely to think of Hawaii in terms of the ukulele and steel guitar, grass skirts and the hula, swimming and surfboard riding. We have memories of vacations in Hawaii when we enjoyed those and other pleasures, or anticipate that we eventually will have the opportunity to experience them.
And the Hawaiians want us to think that way. They make it easy and convenient for us to enjoy those things when we visit them. They welcome us with a flower lei, and when offered by one of the opposite sex, the traditional, friendly kiss goes with it. Nowhere in the world do people with natural attractions for vacationers have a better understanding of the business of tourism.
So the Hawaiians take pride in their
talent for making visitors welcome. But they want us to know that tourism is not their only industry, nor even their number one industry. It is very important, but in dollar volume, it ranks third. First is sugar, second pineapples. See the article on industry and trade for the details.
History
So how did the Hawaiians get that way? Where did they come from? And where did their pleasant islands come from?
The latter is not an idle question, for geologists can tell us how the islands were formed, and we can see a continuation of the process for ourselves by visiting the active volcano Mauna Loa, on the Island of Hawaii, or the other active volcano, Kilauea, also on Hawaii.
Ages ago the floor of the Pacific opened, along a line 2,000 miles in length and spewed
HONOLULU — King Kamehameha’s memory is honored with this statue in front of the Judiciary Building in Honolulu’s Civic Center.