6
Pam Am erfcan
World	Airways Teacher
Hawaiian Islands
Air Patrol at the University of Colorado in 1952, 1953 and 1954, one of the most popular recreational features was a hula class directed by members of the teacher delegation from Hawaii.
Living
The taro has been mentioned as the staff of life in Hawaii. The root, or more properly tuber, when steamed, peeled and pounded, becomes a paste-like affair like a dish of cooked cereal. It is eaten with the fingers, if you eat it Hawaiian style. It will be ranked as one-, two-, or three-fingered poi. If it is thick, one finger will lift up a bite, for thinner mixtures two, or even three fingers may be required.
The young leaves of the taro are food, too, cooked like spinach or beet greens, often with the addition of coconut milk and chicken.
The ti leaf, which we have seen is important to one type of hula costume, is the cook’s friend too—it is used as a parchment for steamed foods. It serves also for table cloth, gift wrappings and flower arrangements. Its root is the basic material for a potent alcoholic beverage, okolehao (oh-fco-lee-Ztow).
When it’s time for a party it’s likely to be a luau {loo-ow). The word means taro leaf, also feast, and a luau is the Hawaiian version of a picnic, or a barbecue, but their very own and in no sense a copy of anything else. Pigs are roasted in the imu, or underground oven, with sweet potatoes and fish wrapped in ti leaf parchment. Along with these main dishes are served fresh pineapple and other fruit, coconut pudding and other exotic dishes. Music and the hula are a part of the luau, equally important with the food.
Hawaiians of whatever extraction are fond of sports, and water sports take first place. Youngsters learn to swim almost as soon as they can walk, and surfboard riding, body surfing and outrigger canoe surfing are popular. Other sports have their devotees and follow close behind water sports: baseball, football, basketball, automobile racing, kite flying and others. Barefoot football is a Hawaiian specialty. It is played in the playground leagues, and the shoeless experts can punt the ball fifty yards or more.
Aviation
Army Lieutenants Lester Maitland and Albert Hegenberger were first to fly from the mainland to Hawaii, in 1927. In the same year Goebel and Davis flew from Oakland to Honolulu—2,400 miles in 25 hours and 17 minutes—to win the Dole race. An air service linking the islands was begun in 1929 by Inter-Island Airways, now known as Hawaiian Airlines.
And Honolulu was the first stop on one of the best-remembered air line flights of all, by the most famous air line airplane—the trail-blazing flight across the Pacific by the China Clipper.
On November 22, 1935 the Pan American flying boat China Clipper left San Francisco Bay with the first Trans-Pacific air mail, sped on her way by the Postmaster General and other dignitaries, flew into the setting sun, through the night and landed next day at Pearl Harbor. After an overnight stop
Captain Edwin C. Musick and his crew continued to Midway, Wake, Guam, stopping overnight at each of these “island stepping stones” and concluding this first Pacific flight at Manila, the original terminal of the route, which was later extended to Hong Kong.
Thus Honolulu became the crossroads of the air for the Pacific, as for years it had been crossroads of the sea lanes.
For Pan American World Airways followed this beginning with air service to New Zealand, and then Australia. Los Angeles and Seattle became additional terminals on the mainland. And with establishment of round-the-world air service, Honolulu became a major stop on that route, with “local” service from the Pacific Coast in Clippers terminating at Honolulu and through round-the-world schedules with Clippers continuing beyond to Wake and Japan, or to Wake and Manila, and thence on around the world.
Other air lines under the American flag, and air lines of other countries, operate to and through Honolulu. The Military Air Transport Service has a major terminal on its world-wide network. Bombers and other military aircraft come and go, with most of the military traffic normally using the Air Force’s Hickam Field. But during the summer of 1955, with Hickam temporarily closed during major construction work on the field, and the military traffic routed in Honolulu’s International Airport, the latter ranked fourth in the United States in number of aircraft movements per day.
With its territory divided among eight different islands spread over a distance of more than 1,500 miles, and with the mainland 2,400 miles away, aviation provides special advantages for Hawaii, and its alert citizens have been quick to make use of them. They use air service for their own travel, and promote it for their tourist visitors, realizing
that many who formerly could not find time to visit Hawaii now can do so because the airplane gets them there in ten hours—either in one daylight flight, or overnight, without sacrificing business or vacation time at all.
Hawaii’s teachers realize this, and are fully aware of the importance of aviation in daily living everywhere. Aviation education in Hawaii is on a par with that of leading states on the mainland—probably in advance of many. A teachers’ guide to Aviation Education issued by the Department of Public Instruction of the Territory of Hawaii provides teachers with basic information for use of aviation concepts all the way from kindergarten to the twelfth grade.
At the University of Hawaii in the summer of 1955 there was a highly successful aviation education workshop for teachers, with Dr. Roland Spaulding, Professor of Education at New York University as its director, and with cooperation by the Civil Aeronautics Administration, the Air Force, the Civil Air Patrol and the air lines.
The Old and The New
In downtown Honolulu is the Bishop Museum, founded in 1889 by Charles R. Bishop in memory of his wife, Princess Bernice Pauahi. In it are priceless samples of Hawaiiana. Are you investigating the origins of the hula, Polynesian navigation methods, early explorations? Name it, if it has to do with Hawaii the Bishop Museum can help.
A few miles away, beyond the city limits, is International Airport, connecting Hawaii with the present all over the world and symbolizing Hawaii’s readiness for what the future may bring. Travelling between the museum and the airport, you’ll pass a giant building housing a pineapple packing plant, an example of Hawaii’s progressiveness commercially. All are Hawaii, and all have for you the same message:
Aloha!
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT — Visitors arriving by Clipper are greeted by a welcoming committee of hula dancers.