10
HAWAII
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Hawaii called the
Paradise of the Pacific?
A.	Reasons for selection:
1.	Talk of statehood has made us anxious to know more about this island.
2.	We realized, more than ever, the importance of Hawaii after December 7, 1941.
3.	There has always been a certain amount of interesting and exciting publicity about Hawaii.
4.	Students should learn that Hawaii is more than a land of pineapples and Hula dancers.
5.	Hawaii, as a vacation spot, is now within the reach of many more tourists.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: 2 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNITS:
A.	Approaches:
1.	There has been so much talk about Hawaii becoming the 49th state. Discussions on the pros and cons of this would make a lively beginning for a unit and would lead to much research on Hawaii.
2.	Current Events.
3.	Reviews of some books listed in the Bibliography.
4.	The story of pineapple.
5.	Pictures and travel folders.
6.	Audio-Visual aids suggested in this issue.
7.	Dramatization of a reception or leave-taking when a plane or ship arrives at or leaves Hawaii.
8.	Study of volcanoes with emphasis on stories of Hawaiian volcanoes.
9.	A discussion of the start of World War II would include some facts about Pearl Harbor.
10.	A discussion of the growth of the United States as a World Power would include the annexation of Hawaii.
11.	A talk to your class by a teacher in the school who has been to Hawaii makes an excellent introduction.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What are the various cultures that contribute to the makeup of Hawaii?
2.	Why is the island of Hawaii so important to present day defense?
3.	What are the many natural resources of Hawaii and how do they contribute to trade relations with the United States ?
4.	What are the many interesting scientific phenomena on the islands?
5.	Why is the location of these islands a great advantage?
6.	Why is the airplane becoming more and more important to and in Hawaii ?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies : geographic influences, many islands only some of which are inhabited; famous beaches such as Waikiki; famous volcanoes, Mauna Loa, Kilauea; largest islands, Hawaii,
Pan Amer/can
World Airways Teacher
Oahu, other inhabited islands, Maui, Kauai, Molokai, Lanai, Niihau, Kaho-olawe ; capital, Honolulu ; largest cities ; government, 15 senators and 30 representatives, a governor appointed by the President ; a nonvoting delegate in Congress ; handicrafts, carved Hawaiian woods, carved jewelry, hand blocked linens; chief products pineapples and sugar ; military and naval base at Pearl Harbor; Hawaiian National Park; University and Museums ; history of Islands, Captain Cook called them Sandwich Islands in 1778 ; Juan Gaetano landed there in 1542 ; Kame-hameha, five native rulers ; Queen Liliuokalani ; J. H. Blount ; Sanford B. Dole, the president of the republic of Hawaii in 1894 ; annexed to the United States in 1898 ; importance of Pearl Harbor in 1941 ; citizens of Hawaii became citizens of the United States in 1900 ; trade with the United States ; origin of the people ; 10 hours by plane from San Francisco and 5 days by ship ; tourist attractions ; education free and compulsory ; literacy high ; languages Oriental and Polynesian. (Much information for Social Studies will be found in this issue.)
2.	Science :—island called “a living flower show”, hibiscus, bougainvillea, cereus, orchids, flowering trees, African tulip tree, Jacaranda—shower tree, silversword plant found nowhere else; beaches and volcanoes, Black sands of Kalpana, barking sands ; Diamond Head crater, Mauna Loa, world’s largest and most active volcano, Kilauea, Mt. Haleakala, inactive ; upside down falls ; wild deer, poor in animal life ; formation of islands, volcanic and coral ; guano deposits ; land shells ; varieties of bird and marine life; Waimea Canyon similar to Grand Canyon.
3.	Language Arts :
a.	New words to enrich your vocabulary are listed at the end of this unit.
b.	Spelling—The Hawaiian alphabet has 12 letters—the 5 vowels (a,e,i,o,u) and 7 consonants, h,k,l, m,n,p,w. Some words you may want to try to spell are listed at the end of this unit.
c.	Oral Communication—discussion on the addition of Hawaii as a state ; interviewing people who have been to Hawaii ; sharing information, book reviews, and resumes of visual aids with others ; answering quiz questions ; reporting current events.
d.	Written Communication:—relating many real or imaginary sightseeing trips to pineapple and sugar plantations, to Diamond Head Crater ; describing a day surfboard riding at Waikiki Beach; writing resumes of books on Hawaii ; writing letters asking for information ; reports ; describing your re-
Hawaiian Islands
ception as you land in Hawaii; telling of a flower festival or Hawaiian feast.
e.	Literature:—read some of the legends of Hawaii and other material listed in the Bibliography in this issue.
4.	Music and Art—the Hawaiians are often called “a race of sweet singers”. Their native legends and history are woven into songs and chants; ukulele and steel guitar; symphony orchestra of Honolulu; Academy of Arts in Honolulu; Bishop Museum and Queen Emma Museum; hand carving; flower arrangements.
5.	Health—legends are also dramatized in dances; hula, symbolic dance of Hawaii; poi, one of the main foods is a paste from the root of the taro plant; national pastime is surfboard riding; also catamaran sailing, outrigger canoeing, barefoot football, deep sea fishing, spear fishing, tennis, polo, wrestling, boxing, baseball, grass sledding.
6. Mathematics—distance	from the mainland of the U.S.; comparison of travel time by ship and plane; time, 2 hours earlier than Pacific Standard time; graphs showing population on various islands ; trade graphs showing the pineapple and sugar production and exportation.
B.	Skills:—map reading skills could be developed in this unit. Outlining knowledge for presentation in discussions and
debates would also be useful.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
1.	A realization of why Hawaii is often referred to as the “paradise of the Pacific”.
2.	An interest in the island and what it has contributed and could continue to contribute to the United States.
3.	Development of an attitude for or against statehood with research to prove one’s point.
4.	An interest in the various scientific phenomena contained on the island.
5.	An understanding of the fact that some Americans live in places outside of the United States.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A. Things to Do:
1.	Make a collection of colorful pictures of the Hawaiian Islands. Use an opaque projector to show these pictures.
2.	Make a model of a volcano out of clay. Place some ammonium dichromate in the crater. Place a lighted match in the chemical. It will begin to “erupt”, smoke will rise from the crater and “lava” will pour down the sides.
3.	Write to the Visitors Bureau in Hawaii for additional information.
4.	Write to the Department of Education and set up an exchange correspondence with a school on the Islands.
5.	Ask parents, teachers, air line personnel, who have visited Hawaii to talk to your students. Interview some of those who cannot come in person.