Pan American
s	World Airways Teacher	Hawaiian Islands
Kanai; 22% from Maui and 20% from Oahu. Thirteen plantation companies are located on the Island of Hawaii; eight on Kanai; three on Maui and four on Oahu. There are two by-products in the milling of sugar cane —molasses and bagasse. Molasses is largely shipped to the mainland for use as cattle feed. Bagasse, the fiber of the cane stalk after the juice has been squeezed out, is used chiefly as fuel in the sugar factories’ furnaces. A small part of bagasse is used to manufacture a building board in Hilo. Extensive research is being carried on by the Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Association to find new and more profitable uses for these by-products. Its use as cattle feed or paper pulp are two possibilities.
Pineapples
Producing pineapple is a part of Hawaii’s basic economy. About 80% of the pineapple sold in the United States is grown on the Islands. Pineapple actually originated in Brazil and was discovered for the modern world by Christopher Columbus on his second voyage to America.
When pineapple was first brought to Hawaii is not known but its presence was first recorded in 1813. For many years the fruit grew wild. In 1886 an English horticulturist, in search for varieties better than native pineapples imported 1,000 plants from Jamaica in the West Indies. This variety, known as Smooth Cayenne, is the principal Hawaiian variety today. However, although the Smooth Cayenne pineapple was superior to all others in taste it did not keep well on the long voyage to San Francisco, then the principal market for Hawaii’s fresh pineapple. Canning was the answer but the English canning venture attempted in 1892 was unsuccessful.
The pioneer in the pineapple canning industry was a young Harvard graduate, James D. Dole, who came from Boston in 1899. In 1901 he organized a company with $20,000 raised locally in San Francisco and Boston. The first pack in 1903 amounted to about 1,800 cases. Since that time the pineapple industry has grown steadily. During the years, new methods of growing and canning pineapple have been developed, resulting in one of the most modern, efficient agricultural operations in the world. As a result, pineapple is no longer a tropical oddity but a staple American fruit.
The pineapple industry is centered on five islands: Oahu, Maui, Molokai, Lanai and Kauai. There are nine pineapple companies operating thirteen plantations and nine canneries. Three of the largest canneries are in Honolulu, less than five minutes from the city center. Pineapple plantations cover 73,600 acres, about one-third as much land as used by sugar. The industry employs about 22,000 persons, counting those hired for the heavy summer canning season and provides year-round work for nearly 10,000. It produces more than 25 million cases of pineapple and pineapple juice each year, an output valued at about $100,000,000 in 1952-53.
The pineapple is a tropical plant requiring relatively little water for growth to produce a sweet and juicy fruit. Pineapples grow on
OAHU ISLAND — A flower lei is made by stringing the flowers together on a thread to form a long necklace.
plants whose many, long, sharp leaves spiral up around a short central stalk and reach a height of three to four feet. Each new plant is started by planting what is called a slip, taken from near the base of the fruit; or a “sucker” taken lower down the stem; or the crown from on top of the fruit. Before planting, the pineapple field is plowed and a machine lays black paper, called mulch paper, in long rows simultaneously fumigating the soil beneath. This paper, which looks like black roofing paper, conserves moisture, increases soil temperature and discourages weeds. Then a man called a planter pokes a hole at regular intervals in the black paper and inserts a new plant, from 15,000 to 18,000 per acre.
After planting, it takes from 18 to 22 months before the fruit ripens provided weather conditions are favorable. There is only one fruit to a plant. Plants must be sprayed to protect them from insects and pests; fertilizer applied beside the plant or sprayed on its leaves; and weeds kept down (mostly by chemical control methods). In about 15 months a small bud appears. It is about two to three inches long. Dozens of little blue and pink flowers, each blooming but one day, blossom around the outside of the tiny pineapple which when mature, will be about the size of a football. Nearly two years after the plant is set out, the first fruit ripens.
Men move through the field, picking only the fully ripe pineapples and placing them on long-armed harvester conveyors. These harvesters collect the fruit in large bins or trucks specially designed to handle the fruit without bruising. Field ripened fruit are rushed to canneries for canning at the peak of natural flavor and goodness. Shortly after harvesting, planting material is col-
lected from plants and one or two “suckers” left to bear fruit a second year in what is called a “ratoon” crop. After the second crop, the plants are plowed under and the field is prepared and replanted.
Pineapple canneries are models of industrial efficiency. All the fruit is used. Pineapple is produced in slices, chunks, and tidbits; also crushed. Millions of gallons of natural, unsweetened juice is produced. Bran for cattle feed is made from pineapple shells. Sugar is recovered from certain juices, and citric and ascorbic acid is extracted for sale to mainland drug firms. One canner also produces alcohol and vinegar.
Ripened pineapples are unloaded from bins or trucks mechanically. They are washed and sorted according to size by machine. Another machine cuts off the ends and removes the shell and core in one operation. Each pineapple is inspected and trimmed by uniformed women wearing hygienic rubber gloves. Various machines slice, dice or cut pineapple into chunks.
Under constant inspection, the fruit is again graded at the packing tables and placed in cans. From packing tables, the filled cans move to machines where syrup is added and can tops sealed. After moving through huge sterilizers, the cans are cooled and then go to labelling machines which can handle up to 1,400 cans a minute. Cans are then placed in cases and stored in warehouses awaiting shipment to every point in the United States mainland. Pineapple plantation life is similar to that of the sugar plantation. People employed in the pineapple canneries live in or near communities which range in size from small rural towns to metropolitan Honolulu.
Tourism
Of all the possibilities for growth in Hawaii during the next ten years, tourist trade is the most important. During the past nine years it has grown from six to nearly fifty million dollars a year. Four mainland developments have favored the postwar growth of the Island’s visitor industry. First is the expansion and improvement in carrier facilities, in which the postwar development of air transportation has played a predominant role. Pan American Clipper Ships flying from the West Coast reach Hawaii in about 10 hours. Planes leave from San Francisco, Los Angeles, Portland or Seattle. (By ship the trip from San Francisco to Hawaii takes five days).
The second development favoring the growth of tourism is the westward migration on the mainland which has made California the second largest state in the Union. Thirdly, the rise in national and per capita income has sharply increased the number of families that can afford a vacation in Hawaii ; and fourth, the general growth in total tourist trade in which Hawaii has participated. Although Hawaiian total income from tourist trade already is equivalent to half of the income derived from pineapple exports (or over a third of that derived from sugar exports), the Islands still are a small participant in the tourist business.
The primary agency in the development of tourist trade is the Hawaii Visitors Bureau supported by appropriations provided by thq