Pan American
World Airways Teacher
COLLEGE GIRL DOES POSING FOR "STUDY ABROAD" PHOTOS
Eda Louise Moore of Wheaton College was delighted when Mademoiselle Nonnie Moore selected her to pose for photographs for a story of a young American studying abroad in Italy.
Accompanied by Nonnie and photographer George Barkentin, she flew Fan American World Airways’ Rainbow Tourist flight to Rome, went on by C.I.T. bus to Florence, came home a week later with a breathless “Grazia” and a firm desire to return.
They stopped briefly in Brussels and spotted Rome’s seven hills later that day. PAA’s Public Relations Representative met the group at the airport and suggested dinner at La Cisterna, a big restaurant in the old Roman section where they were served chicken cooked as Nero had it—or so they were told.
In the three days they spent in Rome, Eda found that “everyone went head over heels to help us.” A policeman and a porter posed obligingly with Eda in front of a PAA bus, even managed a mock argument for the camera. Italians, it seems, are born actors, know exactly what to do in front of a camera. Between takes, they shopped (shops are open from 3:30 to 7:00 p.m.), and everywhere they turned they found coffee stands inviting them to a delicious cappuccino. For more substantial dining the Hostaria Dell’orso (built around 1300 and supposedy frequented by Dante) had excellent food. Long before they could absorb it all, it was time to leave. The C.I.T. bus wound up through rocky, olive-treed hills to Assisi, where they saw the cathedral decorated with Giotto’s magnificent frescoes. On to Perugia, arriving in Florence for dinner at the Camillo Restaurant, where Eda had her first taste of cavour, a cake made of meringue, whipped cream and chocolate that was “just like eating a sugar cloud.” Next day, in a car the C.I.T people got for them, they looked for picture backgrounds, guided by the amazing Mrs. Elsa Greco, Swedish art expert who has lived in Florence with her Italian husband for twenty years (C.I.T. found her too!). They visited the Uffizi, saw Botticelli’s Birth of Venus and Spring, his portrait of the Medi-cis. Then to the Duomo, rich with color and pattern. They stood in awe before Fra Angelico’s remarkable frescoes painted on the walls of the San Marco convent. They saw Giotto’s campanile and the Baptistry with Ghiberti’s bronze doors; then the Ponte Vecchio, only bridge standing after the war. Its old shops (one was Cellini’s workshop) are filled with fine embroideries, leather, silver. Next came the Pitti Palace, Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s house; a wonderful view of the city from the Piazzale Michelangelo just outside Florence . . . and finally, a tour of the university.
Eda visited Villa Schifanoia (meaning “away from annoyance”), which was Myron Taylor’s residence until he gave it to the Pope, is now run by four American nuns as a residence for American graduate students. They saw Etruscan ruins (400 b.c.) standing next to the Roman Amphitheatre in Fiesole, outside Florence, felt the sucl-
Inner Courtyard at the main building Italian medical student, Nino Campo.
den weight of time. They had tea at Doney’s, dinner at Sostanza, a small restaurant where everyone sits together, and mourned the lack of Italian that prevented them from joining in the fun. . . . And suddenly Eda was on the morning Clipper plane bound for Boston and classes. It was all over ... for now. Note: The University of Florence offers courses in Italian language, literature, civilization and Dante from July 15 to August 31. Tuition is about $16 monthly. For information write Cetro di Cultura per Stranieri, via San Callo 25 A, Florence. Living expenses are not high, homes and villas take in students, and the pensiones average about $3.20 daily including meals.
University of Florence. Eda Moore with an
The March issue of MADEMOISELLE will feature a story on the adventures and experiences of a young American’s study and travel abroad. The material was so interesting and has so much application for other American student-tourists that we feel it would be of interest to all of our readers.
The March Mademoiselle is also featuring 33 pages on studying, working and wandering abroad. Included in the section are tips on how to go, what it costs and how to look your best when you get there. — The Editor
Pan American
World Alrwavs Teacher
STUDY UNITS
YOU, THE READERS, ASKED FOR THEM AND THEY’RE READY NOW
There is so much demand for back copies of the World Airways Teacher Study Units that we asked you (mail survey) if you’d want to buy them with a binder, for the cost of the printing. So many said “Yes” that we decided to go ahead.
To order your set of World Airways Teacher Study Units, including:
ALASKA, AUSTRALIA, GERMANY, INDIA, JAPAN,
PAKISTAN, PERU, PHILIPPINES, SOUTH AMERICA,
AND UNITED KINGDOM
plus a binder in which to keep the reprints, and in which to collect study units from this and future issues of World Airways Teacher, use the postage paid reply envelope enclosed with this issue of World Airways Teacher, or send a note, enclosing One Dollar in cash, check or money order payable to Pan American World Airways, to
Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways P.O. Box 1908 Grand Central Station New York 17, N.Y.