Page 12
Pah Amertcah
World Airways Teacher
AUDIO VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
PEOPLE ON THE MARCH, 26 mins., 16 mm., sound, black and white (in production). Available from Arab Information Center, Films Section, 445 Park Avenue. The Arab World sprawls across a sti'a-tegic crossroads of the globe. Extending across North Africa from the Atlantic into Asia bordering on the Indian Ocean this vast land is waking from a long sleep. Arab Society is undergoing a dramatic transition from a quasi-feudal, pre-industrial, premodern way of life to a progressive, democratic, modern system of social organization. The independent states of the Arab World —Egypt, Libya, The Sudan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Jordan, Syria, Lebanon, and Iraq— have achieved a hard-won independence and are now tackling the many challenges which that independence has brought. Here is a film that shows how they are doing it— turning oil revenues into capital development projects, rehabilitating old land, improving village sanitation and public health, building railroads and communication systems, and establishing democratic government. These are a people “on the march” toward a better life.
THE ARAB MIDDLE EAST, 16 mm., black & white, and color, sound. McGraw-Hill Text Film Division, 330 West 42nd St. This new film which represents a comprehensive view of the Arab Middle East is divided into six parts. The first and last treat the Middle East as a unit, while the remainder covers those Arab countries which lie in the heart of the Middle East —Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq. Stressing the history of the Middle East, the film also highlights such subjects as agriculture, irrigation, transportation, housing, education and the refugee problem. It pictures the large cities of these countries as well as glimpses of Lebanese home life, scenes of the rapidly disappearing Bedouins and colorful bazaars. The film ends by showing the promising future of the Arab countries. AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF BEIRUT, 16 mm., 28 min., color and sound. The American University of Beirut, 40 Worth St„ New York 13, N. Y.
This film is a documentary on the importance of the University in serving the Near East. It contains information on the University’s curriculum and depicts typical scenes in Lebanon and other parts of the Middle East.
THE MIDDLE EAST, 16 min., sound, color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films Inc., Wilmette, 111.
An overview of this vitally important area. The lands and the people, their homes, natural resources and industries are shown as they are today.
MIDDLE EAST, POWDERKEG ON THE RIM OF THE COMMUNIST WORLD. Produced by March of Time. 16 min. black and white. McGraw-Hill Text Films
Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York, N. Y.
A report on Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Lebanon, and other countries of the Middle East where a propaganda battle is being waged between communism and Western democracy. Describes the increasing nationalistic spirit of these countries and the political and economic problems confronting them.
ANCIENT NEAR EAST-ANCIENT BAALBECK AND PALYMRA. Encyclopedia Britannica Films Inc., Wilmette, 111. 10 min. sound, color.
Depicts the ruins of these two cities in ancient Syria, east of the Lebanon mountains. Shows the life of the people in Palmyra and the ancient stone carvings and carved columns at Baalbeck.
ANCIENT PETRA, .10 min., sound, color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Ancient Petra is a city of red sandstone caves in the heart of the Arabian desert. The film shows the effects of Edomite, Arab, Greek and Roman civilizations imposed upon the architecture of this crossroad city.
ROUAD—Island of the Crusaders, 10 min., sound, black and white. A. F. Films, 1760 Broadway, New York 19, N. Y. Shows fisherman of the 20th century still working and living on this tiny island near Syrie under conditions which prevailed during the time of the Crusaders.
WATER FOR THE PEOPLE, 10 min., sound, black and white. United Nations Films Division, United Nations, New York, N. Y.
In Iraq, a United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization team surveys dry desert lands: The Iraq Government builds dams to divert water from the Tigris and Euphrates. The Government plans to move families from overcrowded areas and the FAO helps plan farm settlements.
ARABIAN CHILDREN, 16 min., sound, color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Life of farm family in a village in Jordan with special attention to children’s activities. Their home and school, way in which they help with the work, problems and pastimes.
ENCHANTED CITY, 15 min., sound, color. Sirnmel Meservey Inc., 8826 Olympic Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.
Two young Arab boys tour through historic city of Petra, with old tribesman as guide. Reviews the legend of the city’s origin and its subsequent fate. Architectural magnificence of the tombs and temples revealing Egyptian, Syrian and Persian influences.
MIRACLE BUILDERS, 15 min., sound, color. Simmel Meservey Inc., 8826 Olympic Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.
Features engineering marvels of thousands
of years ago, still unsurpassed, Baalbeck’s Temples in Lebanon, Saint Sophia in Istanbul, and Sacsahuaman in the Andes.
Filmstrips
MIDDLE EAST: Crossroads of Three Continents, 57 fr., si., b. & w., New York Times, Times Squai'e, New York City. The filmstrip looks at this region as the crossroads of three continents—Europe, Asia and Africa, and as the birthplace of the three great religions of Judaism, Christianity and Mohammedanism. The religious heritage, cultural variations, centuries of conquest and patterns of power and strife form vital background.
MIDDLE EAST CITY, 25 fr., si., with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y. Beirut, Lebanon is a typical city where the old and the new are seen in sharp contrast-one of the characteristic aspects of life in the eastern Mediterranean. AGRICULTURE (In the Middle East) 25 frames with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y.
In the Middle East, agriculture, as it has been practiced for centuries, is shown to be the main occupation of the people. PEOPLES OF THE EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN, 25 fr., si., with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y.
An overview of daily life in the eastern Mediterranean area —Turkey, Syria, Iraq, and Egypt.
THE DESERT, 25 fr., si., with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y.
Shows the desert as a hot, dry region that is, nevertheless, inhabited by many people who have adapted their ways of life to the climate and the lack of water. The pictures were taken in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Egypt.
LIFE IN DESERT LANDS, 40 fr., si., with captions, b. & w„ McGraw-Hill Text Films Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York City.
A study of the people and geographic character of a hot, dry land. Describes caravan life—problems of locating proper camp sites, of caring for and using the camel and other animals, and of meeting the basic needs of food, shelter and clothing.
WATER JUG, 25 fr., si., with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y.
The scarcity of water in hot, dry countries is highlighted thru this story of water jugs, which have been made by the same methods for centuries, and used thruout the desert lands of the Middle East.
Records
KURDISH FOLK SONGS AND DANCES.
Long playing non-breakable microgroove 33-1/3 R. No. P. 469 Folkway Records and Service Corporation, 117 West 46th St., New York, N. Y. This record is one of the Ethnic Folkway Records. An unusual on-the-spot recording of the dances, song and tribal ceremonies of the Kurds. The Kurds occupy an area in the Near East which straddles the boundaries of four countries, —Turkey, Iran, Iraq, and Syria.