Pa/v Amertca/v
Won id Airways Teacher
Page 3
FOUR COUNTRIES OF THE ARAR WORLD
By Enrique Portes
Here are four small countries of the Arab World, namely Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq. All belong to that geographical group called the Near East. All are Arabic-speaking countries. The word “Arab” is very interesting because it has different meanings which are often a source of confusion to many.
In Biblical and pre-Biblical times, the Arabs were a nomadic people inhabiting the Arabian Peninsula. Nomad Arabs are still to be found today not only there but also in Jordan, Syria, Iraq, and North Africa. They are known as Bedouin, and their life has changed little for centuries. They still roam the desert on their camels, live in tents, and often have to travel a day or two in the search of water. Theirs is a tribal life, struggling against the fetters of social discipline. Their code both permits the raiding of other tribes and imposes strict obligations of hospitality and sanctuary towards strangers. These are people who have been portrayed sometimes in the movies, and made subject of study and romantic interpretation.
The word “Arab” means also the people of the Arabian Peninsula, or as some would call them “the Arabians”— nomads and town-dwellers. They are more or less of pure Arab race. In this sense the word denotes an ethnic group. But in its most common use today the word “Arab” designates a culture group. It means all the peoples of the Arab world (Middle East and North Africa) which was Arabized by the Moslem-Arab conquests of the seventh and eighth centuries A.D. This process was accomplished by racial mixing through marriage between uhe conquerors and the conquered, by the establishment of Arabic as the language of the conquered countries, and by the conversion of the majority of the population to Islam.
Racial mixing was at its strongest on the fringe of the Arabian Peninsula (Palestine and Jordan) where a large proportion of Arab emigrants made thier home, but it also occurred in Iraq and Syria, in Egypt and the Sudan, and along the North African coast. Whatever their racial origins, the peoples of the Arab world regard themselves as Arabs. Among these are included the inhabitants of Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, and Iraq.
Another point to make clear is that though Arabism and Islam are interrelated, and at the beginning conterminous, they are not so today. Arab does not always mean Moslem, nor does Moslem always mean Arab. There are important Asian states that are Moslem but not Arab — Turkey, Pakistan, Indonesia and others,, One can mention the fact, on the other hand, that there are Christian communities in the Arab world — in Lebanon, Iraq, Syria — composed of Arabs by race and whose mother tongue is Arabic.
According to some sources, the largest concentrations of native Christian commu-
nities in the Arab world are to be found in Egypt (about a million and a quarter of Egypt’s population of 22 million) and in the Lebanon where the inhabitants are equally divided between Christians and Moslems, and where Mount Lebanon itself (as distinct from the coastal cities and the plains of the interior) is predominantly Christian in population and social complexion. In Syria about 10 per cent of the population (of about 3,500,000) are Christians. In Iraq there are 90,000 Christians in a population of nearly 5 million.
The survival of the Christian minorities in the Arab world is in a way a tribute to the Moslem conquerors. “Islam or the sword” was not always the choice. In fact, according to some good sources, it was the choice offered to the pagans of the Arabian Peninsula; but to the People of the Book (Chrsitians and Jews) and to the Zoroastri-ans in Persia there was added the third alternative of retaining their faith and paying tribute to the Caliph. And they have survived. The God of the Moslems is the same as the God of the Jews and the Christians. The Prophet made no claim to be divine. He not only learned his monotheism from Jewish and Christian sources, but he also accepted and venerated Moses and Jesus as his forerunners, merely claiming to be the last of the prophets, and that his teachings superseded those of the Bible.
Splendor of the Arab World
Mohammed became a conqueror and a ruler in the course of fulfilling his prophetic mission. Later the Arab Empire was an absolute monarchy, under the caliph, who was the successor of the Prophet. Then the
caliphate attained its greatest splendor. The best known of them is Harun-al-Rashid (d. 809), who was a contemporary of Charlemagne, and is known to every one in legendary form through the Arabian Nights. His court was a brilliant center of luxury, poetry, and learning; his revenue was enormous; his empire stretched from the Straits of Gibraltar to the Indus. This splendor, however, was short-lived. His successors were gradually reduced to figureheads. The last caliph was put to death by the Mongols in 1256, along with 800,000 of the inhabitants of Baghdad.
During the period of splendor, commerce was greatly developed, for the calpihate occupied a central position between East and West. Trade was promoted, silks were imported from China and furs from Northern Europe; the Arabic language became a world language. One of the best features of the Arab economy was agriculture, particularly the skilful use of irrigation, which they learned from living where water is scarce. To this day Spanish agriculture profits by Arab irrigation works.
The distinctive culture of the Moslem world, though it began in Syria, soon flourished in Persia and Spain. The Syrians, at the time of the conquest, were admirers of Aristotle. The Arabs acquired their knowledge of Greek philosophy from the Syrians, and thus, from the beginning, they held Aristotle more important than Plato. Meanwhile, in Persia, Moslems came in contact with India. It was from Sanskrit writings that they acquired, during the eighth century, their first knowledge of astronomy. About 830, Musa al-Khwarazmi, a translator of mathematical and astronomical books
Courtesy Near East Foundation
SYRIA. Through the cooperation of the Ford Foundation, the Sanitation Department of the Near East Foundation was able to clean three Roman wells in the village of Zaki and installed hand-operated pumps to replace the old rope and bucket method. For the first time in the history of Zaki village there is a supply of clean drinking water.