jPA/V ÆMEKÎCAIV
Page T-4__________________________
Modelers Will Fly Jet Aircraft in PAA-Load Contests this Year
Jet-powered Clippers will be flying on the ocean air routes in 1959; their counterparts in model aviation will be at it this summer in contests throughout the United States and abroad.
The jet-powered models will compete in the new PAA-Load Jet division of the model aircraft competitions sponsored by Pan American World Airways, a popular feature of model flying in such contests as the National Model Airplane Championships, the Mirror Model Flying Fair, the King Orange Internationals and others, since 1948.
PAA-Load model flying, as introduced and sponsored by the air line, requires contestants to carry pay load in their powered, free flight models, thus performing a mission in model aviation which corresponds to the job of air line aircraft in transporting passengers, mail and cargo.
Payload for a model consists of a dummy occupant of specified size and weight. There are various classifications, with carrying specified payload, the most popular being that for the smallest class of model aircraft, which average 5 to 8 ounces in weight. This is the America Class of PAA-Load flying, and the specified payload in this class is five ounces.
An indication of the success achieved by the modelers in lifting weight in then-models may be seen from the fact that five ounce models have no difficulty in lifting load equal to their own weight—air transport craft customarily carry pay load equivalent to thirty or forty per cent of their own weight.
Devised by Dallas Sherman of Pan American World Airways’ executive staff, PAA-Load in its original form was for Free Flight gas-powered models. In this phase of PAA-Loacl, which remains the most popular of the categories in which the weight lifters compete, the gassies carrying their specified payloads compete for greatest time aloft. Three official flights count toward the score, which may amount to five or ten minutes in all.
A contest for rubber-powered models was added to the line up, the competition again being for duration of flight. A variation for gas models in which the amount of payload is not specified, but instead is a contest to see who can lift the greatest weight, has produced models carrying payload equal to three times their own weight.
In still another version, for control line models flying with payload on an endurance basis, modelers have kept their craft in the air with heavy payloads aboard for upward of an hour.
PAA-Load Jet was suggested by Mr. Sherman as a new variation when PAA last fall announced that it had ordered jet-powered aircraft from both the Boeing and Douglas aircraft companies.
The jet models will be powered by Jetex, or similar motors, these being model power units which burn fuel in pellets to produce expanding gas which forces its way out through a tiny jet opening to produce a
MIRROR MODEL FLYING—About a thousand modellers turn out each year for the Mirror Model Flying Fair, and the participation probably would be greater if The Mirror didn't have to limit entries to that number. About half of the contestants sign up each year for PAA-Load Event.
thrust for all the world like the prodigiously more powerful thrust of the 600 mile per hour full scale jet airplane.
The PAA-Load jet models will be tiny affairs which won’t fly very long or very far, and will carry only an ounce of pay-load, but they will perform on a miniature scale, with reference to size, weight, time and distance, the same mission is their military and commercial counterparts.
One PAA-Load Jet contest already has been conducted, on an experimental basis, at the King Orange International Model Airplane Contest, at Miami, Florida, in January. Dave Hertzson, the winner, turned
in a flight of better than two minutes in this first trial of the new rules.
It will be featured at all contests including PAA-Load this summer. These will include the National A.M.A. Model Airplane Championships at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Dallas, Texas July 23 to 29, the Mirror Model Flying Fair at the U. S. Naval Air Station in Brooklyn, N. Y. September 1, the King Orange Internationals in Miami in December and many others.
For details, address Superintendent, Educational Services, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
MODEL SPOTTER—Dallas Sherman, originator of PAA-Load Event, visited model contests during the past flying season in his Mooney Mite, shown in photo with a Super Stratocruiser. Sherman flew the Mooney as a spotter plane, locating lost models, and giving directions by radio so that modellers would know where to look.