Page T-2
PA/V ÂMEKfCAtV
World Aîrwaye Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1956, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Superintendent, Educational Services Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(Continued from page Tl)
are transcribed on kinescope for use later on educational TV stations, and for movie showings.
Finally, late in March, comes the Forum, an all-day affair in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria with representatives from high schools all over the New York area in attendance, with important guest speakers from government and business, and with panel discussions in which the guests abroad participate with representatives of the New York schools.
What sort of boys and girls are these who come as guests from all over the world for this operation in world understanding?
For one thing, each is the survivor of some of the most rigorous selecting ever faced in scholastic competition. In some of the countries, as many as 15,000 or 20,000 students enter the original phase by submitting essays in school competitions.
Fluency in English
Fluency in English is a pre-requisite, for obvious reasons.
Interest in international matters and capacity for offering and accepting ideas are important and are stressed throughout the selective process, right up to the finals.
For a close-up of a representative delegate, a peek at an autobiography is revealing. The quotation below was taken almost at random — a like block of words from any of the delegates’ autobiographies would serve equally as well for the purpose. This one happens to be from the girl representing Australia, Elizabeth A. Woodgate, of Adelaide:
“When I was four I started in the kindergarten at Walford and enjoyed it as much as any young child first starting school. Holidays were always welcome and were mainly spent on farms, for, as both my parents are country-bred, we have many friends in the country.
“The farm that I visit most has a variety of animals — sheep, cows and horses — and of crops — wheat, oats and vines. Being a keen horse rider I entered for one of the Mt. Pleasant shows, but unfortunately the horse had a very strong will — and mouth — so that we were not successful.
“We usually spend the Christmas holidays at Christie’s Beach, but one Christmas we motored over to Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney. I was impressed by the size of Melbourne and Sydney compared to Adelaide, and that trip along the Sturt Highway,
through Murray Valley and back along the Hume Highway, added more to my knowledge of Australia than any text book.
“Since the age of seven till last year I was obsessed with the idea of becoming a doctor. When I reached Intermediate standard — after winning the Junior Walford Scholarship (which helped my parents) and the Ina Fox Prize for leadership I had the choice between an Arts or Science course. I chose the Science, but during that year I became instead more and more interested in the humanities. I began to read the newspapers more thoroughly as well as Current Affairs Bulletins till finally in Leaving Honours I changed to Arts and have decided to take Law at the University.
Tennis is Favorite Sport
“In Grade Seven I started having tennis lessons and tennis has always been since my favourite sport. My brother and I were fortunate enough to have tickets for the Davis Cup when it was in Adelaide last and we were very impressed by the excellent tennis of both Americans and Australians; we were also thrilled at Australia’s victory. Even more than watching I love playing tennis and felt very lucky and exhilarated when I won the Junior and Non-team tennis Cups and, as first in the “A”, the Senior tennis cup in the school.
“However enjoyable a game can be one can become tired of it and by the winter season we are all usually looking forward to the basketball and hockey season. In first year Intermediate I started playing hockey and prefer it to basketball for a winter sport; I have been trying for years for the “A’’ team and I finally made it last year and was very thrilled when I was appointed captain and awarded my “blue”. I have also had some invaluable experience playing for “Wirrawarra” (a team in the Women’s “A” Grade Association).
“Debating has always been one of my main interests and I have spent many enjoyable evenings at inter-school debates, either debating or listening. In Intermediate I was chosen for a Junior team, in Leaving for a Senior team, and felt even more honoured when I was appointed President of the Debating Club this year. Acting is also an absorbing pastime and I thoroughly enjoyed playing the part of Miss Bingley in the school play last year (for which I was given a Repertory award).
Interest in Books
“There is another important interest I have and without which I should be lost — reading. It is true that if a man has books he can never be lonely. In books I have met various characters — some of whom I admire, some whom I pity or detest — I have experienced things that in my narrow life I could not have without their help. At the moment I am reading “Kristin Lavrans-datter”, “The Emotions of Normal People” and “Our World Today and Yesterday”. As it can be seen I am a very unmethodical reader and often am in the process of reading three or four books at a time — depending on my mood which one I pick up.
“I have belonged to the St. Columba’s Youth Fellowship for about three years and enjoy all the activities connected with the
Mr. Kenneth Gould, Editor-in-chief of Scholastic Magazines talks with Miss Yoriko Konishi forum delegate from Japan.
Church. At the beginning of the year wt had a ‘Lights Up for the Aged’ when all the members went around to houses in the parish with collecting tins. We visited any house with a light on and, as often as not, people had their lights on for practical purposes, not to attract us! During Easter we produced a Passion Play written by our curate and that took up many Sunday afternoons for hard practices. . . .
“Looking back on my life of nearly seventeen years I think that the most exciting moments have been flying to Melbourne alone, seeing the Queen and being appointed, by our Headmistress, Captain of the School.”
Elizabeth's Clipper Trip
In fairness to the Captain and crew of the Pan American Clipper which flew Elizabeth to the United States, it is essential to point out that she named her flight alone to Melbourne as one of the most exciting moments of her life in an autobiography written before she was adjudged the winning candidate, and before her trip to the United States.
Elizabeth is one of more than 200 boys and girls who have come to the United States in the Herald Tribune Forum for High School foreign delegate program in the ten years that it has been in operation. Those who came here in the earlier years are not boys and girls any more, of course, and have carried the experience into adult activities. A number of those who were delegates more recently are back in the United States, attending college. The Herald Tribune keeps in touch with former delegates as much as possible, and knows that an important result is lasting friendship.
Director of the Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools is Mrs. Helen Hiett Waller, newspaperwoman and foreign correspondent, who is also Director of the Herald Tribune Forum held in New York each fall on the adult level.