Pa/v Am CUÍCAIV
Page 4_________________ WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
from the Sanskrit, published a book which was translated into Latin in the twelfth century, under the title of Algoritmi de numero Indorum. It was from this book that the West first learned of what we call “Arabic” numerals, which ought to be called “Indian.”
Persian civilization remained admirable until the invasion of the Mongols in the thirteenth century, from which it never recovered. Omar Khayyám, a poet and a mathematician, reformed the calendar in 1079. The Arabs can be proud of two great Moslem philosophers, one of Persia, one of Spain. Avicenna (Ibn Sina) (980-1037), and Averroes (Ibn Rushd) (1126-1198), born in Córdova, Spain.
The Arabs have left a permanent mark in every phase of human culture. Arabic words can be found in every language. The names of the fixed stars in the international scientific vocabulary are Arabic words, testifying to the Arabs’ work in astronomy. A square in London and a great citadel of British sea power bear Arabic names. Trafalgar comes from Taraf al-Ghar meaning the “cape of the cave”), and Gibraltar is in Arabic Febel Tariq, or the mount of Tariq, Tariq being the commander of the first Arab armies to cross from North Africa to Spain.
The map of Spain is full of Arabic names. Arabic words can be found in everyday vocabulary that describes objects, occupations, games. Spanish and Portuguese, of course, have the highest ratio of such words. But English, too, has several hundred Arabic words. What word could be more in English tradition than “admiral”? Yet, that word comes from amir al-bahr, meaning “commander of the sea”. And then, English has the words “arsenal”, “sloop”, “cable”, “traffic”, “tariff”, etc. And also, “algebra”, “zero”, “alchemy”, "chess”. Another case of interesting borrowing is to be found in the French word salamalec, from the Arabic greeting salam aleik, meaning “Peace be with you”.
The Arab world fell into slumber in 1517 with the occupation of Cairo by the Ottoman Sultan, Selim I. All the Arab lands were incorporated in the Ottoman Empire. Everywhere the Arabs and Arabized peoples lost the position of rulers, the seat of power became Constantinople — or, as the Turks called it, Istanbul — and the title of caliph was eventually assumed by the Ottoman Sultans. It was not till the XIX century that the Arab world began to stir with a new cultural life and with new political aspirations; it was not till the XX century that these aspirations began to be fulfilled.
And here we outline some aspects of the four countries which concern us today.
THE LEBANON REPUBLIC
Lebanon is one of the smallest Mediterranean countries — less in size than Connecticut. It looks Western in most ways. You find in Lebanon a spirit of urgency, of eagerness to get on, to build, to plan for bigger things. After World War II, the country became the free and independent Republic of Lebanon. Its mountains run parallel to the coast. In the eastern border is the range of Anti-Lebanon, and between the two mountain ranges lies the fertile valley of El Bika, the heart of Lebanon. It was the home of the Phoenicians who left their mark on the Mediterranean world and whose Queen Dido founded Carthage. The grandfather of all alphabets of the world was Phoenician invention, as was proved by the finding at Byblos of the sarcophagus of King Ahiram. This treasure bears a long-inscription in the first alphabet. The Ahiram sarcophagus, with its inscription, may be seen in the Gallery of the Alphabet in the National Museum at Beirut.
Lebanon was the Biblical “land of milk and honey”, a phrase thought now by scholars to refer to two water springs named Milk and Honey. At any rate, springs and brooks are found everywhere in Lebanon today, in contrast with the barren nature
of most of the surrounding lands. Historically, the region has been connected with Syria. It has been the theater of war, the object of all sort of conquests, from Alexander the Great to the Ottoman Empire. It was under the French mandate for a while. Finally, in 1944 it was proclaimed a free Republic.
French and American influences have both been of great importance in the development of modern Lebanon. The era of the French mandate brought material progress to the country and also left its strong cultural stamp. The French University of St. Joseph in Beirut, with an Oriental Library has done much to make this capital one of the most literate and best-educated cities in the Near East. By the same token, the American University in Beirut, called the largest American university outside the United States, has been of tremendous value to that country. Eminent citizens of Lebanon are proud to say that they were educated in the American University. Through all the wars, in spite of all difficulties, this great cultural institution has kept functioning. Its various schools include arts and sciences, medicine, pharmacy, nursing, public health, engineering and agriculture. Students'- are of fifty nationalities and twenty-four religious groups. It is located on a lovely hillside region overlooking the sea at the western edge of Beirut.
Beirut—the Joyful City
Beirut, with nearly two hundred thousand inhabitants, is a city to be enjoyed. It has, of course, the National Museum, the Grand Mosque, the Oriental Library, the American University, which makes any American feel proud, and many other attractions. But it is the gay spirit of Beirut that leaves first its mark on the visitor. Its resorts and sandy beaches are in great number. The hill resorts above Beirut are an integral part of the capital. In the summer the roads to Aley, Bhamdoun, Sofar and other suburban resorts are packed with cars, shiny American cars of the latest models.
From Beirut it is easy to visit historical places of great beauty. Zahle, in the Ber-douni Valley, is a place of sheer delight. Then hasten right along to Baalbek. The Greeks and later the Romans called it Heliopolis, but centuries later it reversed to its original Phoenician name — Baalbek. It is between two lofty mountain ranges, Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon, and watered by two rivers, the Orontes, and the Leonti (now called Litani). It is here where the Roman Emperor erected to Jupiter and Bacchus the magnificent temples the ruins of which you may admire. How the wonders of Baalbek were built? The scores of pillars of rose-colored granite and gray granite in the Temple of Jupiter came from Assouan in Upper Egypt, floated on the Nile and the sea to Tripoli, and then rolled 150 miles up to Baalbek, and each weighing hundreds of tons. These are the famous ruins of Baalbek.
From Beirut to the Cedars of Lebanon is one more of those experiences the traveler never forgets. The Cedars of Lebanon, in a small but beautiful grove, are almost the