Pan Æmerîcæn
Page 2	Would Aid ways Teacher
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
For our journey by Clipper to the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East countries of Lebanon, Jordan, Syria and Iraq, we may elect the northerly route via Paris, which is the one generally chosen, or we may travel via the Azores, Portugal across southern Spain, to Nice in France and Rome and thence to Beirut. We’d choose the latter especially if we wanted stopovers in the countries mentioned.
In either case, we’d call a PAA ticket office or a travel agent, who would book our space, and would also advise us about passport and other requirements.
To enter Lebanon, we’re going to need a passport, for which application will be made to the State Department, and a visa, obtained from the Lebanese Ministry in Washington or from any Lebanese Consulate. We’ll need a vaccination certificate—this is for re-entry into the United States, and is required whenever and wherever we travel abroad. For Syria, Jordan and Iraq similar requirements are in effect, plus special ones that will not be detailed here, in connection with this imaginary trip, because they are subject to change and would have to be currently checked for an actual trip to these countries.
Selecting a Wardrobe
With applications filed in anticipation of the entry requirements, we may turn our attention to the matter of selecting a wardrobe. We’ll find that the types of clothing we would wear in the United States (except the warm parts of the U.S. like Florida and Southern California) will be appropriate. In other words we’ll want light clothing for summer, warm clothing and a raincoat for winter. For Lebanon, the travel guide New Horizons suggests that you “take along your very best clothes and about the same weights as you would wear in New York City for the different seasons. Swimming suits are essential from April through September; the beaches are beautiful and the water excellent. Raincoats are necessary for the rest of the year. The first rainfall occurs in early October.”
The advice about raincoats is important —the rains can start suddenly, be torrential, and stop just as suddenly as they started.
We’ll select our wardrobe carefully, so as to be within the allowable limit for air travel of 30 kilos or 66 pounds first class, 20 kilos or 44 pounds, tourist. (On international flights baggage allowances are ex--
By George Gardner
pressed in kilograms, and for U.S. travelers translated into pounds, because so many countries abroad use the metric system.) After the journey is underway, we’ll be glad of the weight limitation, which moves us to keep to essentials, for which the limit is more than ample, and cut down on items which we’ll use seldom, if at all, and will only be a nuisance to carry.
We Study Good Neighbors
Meanwhile, as we make the practical arrangements for traveling to the Middle East, we’ll make it our business to learn as much as possible about the countries we plan to visit, by reading books and magazines, seeing motion pictures and talking to persons who have lived there, or visited there. For our imaginary trip, or a real one for that matter, the facts set forth in the following pages of this unit will serve this purpose.
When all is in readiness, and the day for our departure arrives, we’ll be in New York City, and we’ll go to the East Side Air Line Terminal on First Avenue between 37th and 38th Streets to board a limousine which will take us to the International Airport, or we may go direct to the airport if we prefer.
At the ticket counter, an agent will not only examine our tickets and check our baggage, but also will examine our passports, as assurance that we have met the appropriate requirements, so that we will
OUR WRITERS
Special consultant for the Middle East teaching unit was Dr. Park Beck, who recently returned to the United States after serving as a faculty member at the American University in Beirut. Dr. Beck now is back at his post at the College of the City of New York.
Regula.- readers will recognize the by-lines of Enrique Portes, who is a member of the United Nations Secretariat staff, Lou A. Phillips, research specialist and writer on foreign trade, Eugenie Nadelman, a principal in the New York City school system and a former Curriculum Assistant in the New York Bureau of Curriculum Research, and Esther Berg, audio-visual consultant.
not have difficulty when it comes time to enter the country on the other side of the ocean.
Finally there will be a few minutes to watch the people in the lobby at the airport, or to watch the airplanes coming and going, and then will come the announcement over the public address system, telling us that our flight is ready for boarding and saying what gate to use.
Take-Off for Trans-Atlantic Flight
Going aboard we’ll be met by a stewardess, and directed to the seat assigned especially to us. The other passengers come aboard, the door is closed, and the Captain on the bridge starts the engines. The Captain, and his crew work deliberately checking on the instrument readings, and when they are satisfied, the Captain after getting clearance from the Control Tower to do so, moves the plane to the end of the runway. Here there is a recheck of instrument readings, and further communication with the Control Tower for clearance to take off. When this has been accomplished the Captain calls upon his Flight Engineer for full power, the noise of the engines rises to a roar, the plane moves, gathers speed, is airborne, gains altitude and turns northeast on the Great Circle course to Europe.
The flight to Paris takes only 11 hours, or somewhat longer if we stop at Gander to refuel, and we’ll reflect that only a couple of years from now, we’ll be able to make the same journey by Jet-powered Clipper in six hours and 35 minutes.
Time is telescoped as it is. We’re going east as the sun moves west, and it subtracts a great portion of darkness from the night. Landing at Paris, it is the middle of the day—back home it is early morning.
There is a brief stop in Paris, then we’re on our way for a relatively short flight to Rome. Again a brief stay at the airport, and we take off once more for our first destination in the Middle East — Beirut, in Lebanon.
Deplaning at the airport there, we know for sure we’re abroad as we see people who seem strange to us —people with sun-browned faces, many wearing turbans.
We’ll find soon that what seem to be major differences are not so important. People are people the world over, and they are more like each other than different from the rest.