Page 8
Pan /Uîthkan
World	Arnmys Teacher
long, Turkish baths and a Great Mosque with the oldest minaret known to exist. Palmyra, 116 miles from Damascus is the site of the largest Greco-Roman ruins in Syria. Le Krak cles Chevaliers, 86 miles from Beirut, contains the most celebrated and best preserved fortresses erected by the Crusaders. The fortress has thirteen towers and a dungeon-tower which overlooks the breadth of the country from the mountain to the sea and from the sea to the desert of Palmyra.
JORDAN
Jordan is an Arab Kingdom consisting of Trans-Jordan, 34,758 square miles, and Arab Palestine, 3,000 square miles. Its combined area makes the nation a little larger than the State of Indiana. It has a population of
1.360.000	— slightly less than that of the State of Oregon. The nation’s capital and largest city is Amman with 170,000 people. Aquaba is the country’s chief Port.
Essentially agricultural, in good years Jordan produces enough wheat, barley, vegetables, fruit and livestock for export. Some industries process agricultural products. A new cement factory started operation in 1954. Phosphates are produced and manganese is scheduled for exploitation.
Income from tourists visiting The Holy Land spell the difference between a healthy economy and economic depression in Jordan. Some of Christianity’s most famous monuments are located in the country such as the Holy Sepulchre, the Pool of Betlresda, the Mount of Olives, the Garden of Geth-sernane, Bethlehem, the Tomb of Lazurus, the Walls of Jericho and Christ’s Place of Baptism. There are also the magnificent Roman ruins of Philadelphia near Amman and the Greco-Roman ruins of Petra.
IRAQ
One of the oldest inhabited regions in the worlcj, Iraq was once a part of the ancient Babylonian Empire, lying in the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers. It was formerly called Mesopotamia, which means between the rivers. On the north lies Turkey, on the east Iran, on the south Arabia and on the west Syria and Jordan. Iraq covers 171,000 square miles — slightly larger than California and has a population of
4.871.000	— about that of New Jersey.
Agriculture occupies an essential position
in Iraqi economy, employing 80% of the total population. Nearly 70% of Iraqi production is agricultural. Modern industry contributes a very low percentage of the total national income as it is in the early stages of development.
Iraq’s climate is suitable for growing many products. Its northeastern area is mountainous with a comparatively long winter and winter rainfall sufficient to help cultivation of one crop. In the summer rainfall is so low as to prevent planting without irrigation. In the past, most farmers have confined themselves to a winter' crop only. Grain and tobacco are most important in the northeastern area. There are also forests of good timber and nut-trees. The central area of Iraq is characterized by a moderate winter and a long, dry summer. The climate is suitable for the grow-
ing of grain, barley and dates. The southern area has a wet, long summer suitable for rice cultivation, the best varieties of dates and such sub-tropical products as sugarcane.
There is plenty of flowing water in Iraq, despite its rarity in summer owing to the lack, as yet, of a completely organized irrigation system which makes the abandoning of large areas without exploitation inevitable during the “Say-hud” season. The irrigated area cultivated in summer is estimated at one-third of that sown and cultivated in winter. As a result of the vast quantities of silt annually deposited in Iraq by the rivers Tigris and Euphrates in the flood season, the soil of the country is rich and one of the most fertile in the world.
These factors make Iraq capable of producing several kinds of products of the best quality. Agricultural experiments have proved that Iraq is capable of producing the best kinds of cotton and grain, while the best barley and dates in the world are actually being produced. It is also capable of producing high grade sugar, flax, linseed and tobacco.
The country’s present agricultural and animal products, however, represent but a slim percentage of the potential production. This is primarily due to the low standard of productivity of the agricultural methods still prevailing to a large extent. In spite of noticeable progress already made, many Iraqi cultivators are still employing primitive methods and not making the land produce anything like its capacity. The use of manures and improved seeds is not yet as common as it should be and farmers often neglect to take care of what they grow, many also follow primitive methods in animal husbandry.
Increasing state concern in agricultural affairs is leading to considerable improvement in the agricultural condition of the country. Barrages, such as the Kut Barrage, diversion dams and wells have been constructed or repaired along the River Tigris and Euphrates and their tributaries. Numerous irrigation canals have been dug to bring water to idle lands and to change them from desert into fields of crops. At present, there are two very large projects for flood control and irrigation under construction which will effect a minor social revolution in the areas where the schemes will operate. They are the Flood Control project on the Tigris at Wadi Tharthar and its sister scheme on the Euphrates at Hab-baniyali. Other projects of a similar nature are also being planned.
Cultivable lands on levels that cannot be irrigated by the gravity flow of water are irrigated by pumps. There are now over
18,000	pumps in Iraq with a total power of over 700,000 h.p. Modern machinery is in use already on quite a large number of the bigger farming estates and there is every indication that a far wider use will be made of the most up-to-date mechanical farming aids in the future. Scientific methods of cultivation have been introduced, with crop rotation, selection of seeds, campaigns against pests and diseases and the use of fertilizers and the institution of pro-
per drainage.
Another vital change that has taken place in rural areas is the increase in the number of farmers owning their own farms instead of sharecropping. This is due to far-reaching government schemes for distributing cultivable state lands to landless cultivators. Crop yields have increased since farmers look after their own land better than when they are merely hired to work for someone else. While this distribution of land is still going on, some of the results of this type of activity can be seen in the Dujaila Settlement near Kut — a pilot land settlement project and the first project of its kind in the Arab Middle East. The total area of the project is 2,500 square meters. Each family settled gets a plot of land, a loan of 100 dinars and free water supply.
The Government encourages farmers to make full use of cooperative associations, demonstration farms, educational programs and technical advice available on the Dujaila Site. In ten years the farmer receives his land and all rights pertaining thereto as a gift from the Government, provided he has proved himself worthy and industrious. About 1,500 families have been settled in the Dujaila area so far. Cooperative societies are increasing in number, not only in the Dujaila project, but in other areas too. These societies perform the important function of lending money to the farmers and buying farm implements, seeds, fertilizers and household necessities.
Rural education has been introduced on a large scale. Schools have become centers of social activity in addition to centers of learning. A radio set belonging either to the local tribal headman or teacher keeps the farming community in touch with the world. Today, the Iraqi cultivator can receive up-to-the-minute news from the Department of Agriculture every day of the week. Thus the elements of modern life have been introduced into even the remotest areas, bringing the rural population of today in touch with modern amenities and helping to broaden the minds and educate the people in the ways of a modern world that was formerly beyond the horizon of their narrow local lives.
Apart from the oil industry, which is run by foreign companies, either acting as government agents or as concessionaires, modern national industries represent only a small percentage of total annual production. The industries, except for oil, can be classified as those dealing simply with agricultural commodities, those producing consumer goods and those manufacturing construction materials. The two most important industries dealing solely with agricultural commodities are flour milling and date packing. Three modern flour mills have been established in recent years, the largest of which is at Basrah, established for export purposes, with the capacity to deal with 50 tons of grain a day. Date packing is considered one of Iraq’s oldest industries. Of recent years, the demand of world markets for Iraqi dates has resulted in considerable improvement and expansion of the processing of this valuable Iraqi export which goes chiefly to European and American markets.