Pan American
World Airways Teacher
Page 9
Industries producing consumer goods include woolen, cotton, hides and shoes, vegetable oils and soap. The woolen industry was the first modern industry to be established in Iraq. The cotton industry is only about seven years old. Modern tanneries have recently been established but production is still hampered by the poor quality of hides due to animal malnutrition. Improvement is centered on the gradually improving agricultural life of the country and on the rigorous activities now being undertaken in advising farmers in such matters as animal husbandry, by the Ministry of Agriculture.
Iraq has only one important seaport, Basra at the head of the Persian Gulf. Baghdad is its Capital and largest city, while Mosel is the chief center of popula-lation in the north. Baghdad is probably the most well known city in the Middle East due to such tales as the Arabian Nights and Aladdin and His Lamp. Its name conjures up pictures of mosques with gold and silver domes, Sultan’s palaces, old bazaars and deep blue skies. The Baghdad of Today still has these things and more. There is the National Museum with the world’s oldest law code engraved on stone, the ruins of Babylon and the Hanging Gardens of Ur.
The airplane has replaced the magic carpet and the treasure of Ali Baba has been surpassed by the value of oil in the Middle East but an undeiinable magical quality still lingers despite ever-increasing industrialization and modernization of agriculture. The United States has often forgotten cultural ties with the Middle East. Many of the basic tools of our civilization such as the alphabet and the basic processes of our mathematics were developed in the area. Although it has taken materialistic interests to awaken our interest in the Arab World we are bound to find out that mutual respect based on understanding and getting to know each other through travel will reap unexpected rewards.
THE MIDDLE EAST
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
(Note: In considering this unit the teacher should be aware of the fact that much of the research material will come from periodicals of recent dates and that a large percentage of it may be material of controversial nature.)
I.	PROBLEM: Why have these ancient
lands of the Middle East become so important to us today?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	Current news gives so much space to happenings in the Middle East. Students should be made aware of what is happening there.
2.	These countries have assumed a great strategic and economic importance.
3.	The number of tourists to these ancient Biblical lands is steadily increasing thus making a greater knowledge of these countries more important.
4.	These countries have contributed so much to our modern culture.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: 2 weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	Many newspaper clippings relating to the Middle East could be posted in advance to arouse interest.
2.	A review of one of the sessions of the United Nations which featured a discussion of the countries of the Middle East and their problems could be used as a starting point.
3.	Reference in literature to ancient Biblical and legendary lands woidd arouse a desire to know more about the same lands in modern times.
4.	A study of OIL and its relation to the economy of the world would necessitate further study of the Middle East.
Courtesy Near East Foundation
SYRIA—A Bedouin luncheon.
5.	A movie depicting the many places of interest which pupils have heard so much about could be used.
(5. Magazine articles referred to in the bibliography could be used to create an interest.
7.	A book review might encourage finding out more.
8.	Use of many of the visual aids listed in this issue woidd be a good means of approach.
B. Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What contributions to our culture in astronomy, algebra, medicine, chemistry and language have been made by the countries of the Middle East?
2.	What more can we learn about the places mentioned in the Bible and in early literature?
3.	How does the strategic location of these countries affect the foreign policy of the United States and other powers as well as each of the countries of the Middle East?
4.	How has the airplane helped to bring about changes in these countries?
5.	What can we learn of trade relations between the Middle East and the United States?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies: location of each country; old and new names, Iraq-Meso-potamia, Jordan-Trans Jordan; cities such as Beirut, Kirkuk, Mosul, Saidi, Tripoli, Zahie, Byblos, in Lebanon; Amman, Aqaba in Jordan; Baghdad, Basra in Iraq; Damascus, Aleppo, Homs, Hama, Latakia, in Syria; places of interest in Biblical times such as Bcherre, the cedars of Lebanon; Garden of Eden, Tower of Babel, crusader castles, Temple at Baalbek, Babylon ruins; Lebanon called a natural bridge between Europe and Asia; Tigris-Euphrates Valley; Damascus, oldest city in the world; Orontes, Euphrates, Barado, Litani and Jordan rivers; Lebanon mountains; Biblical land of milk and honey; secret city of Petra, carved from red rock; Syrian and Arabian deserts; fertile crescent; sub-tropical climate; Lake Latakia, only lake in Syria; Mosul oil field, one of the richest in the world; Baghdad and Basra airports, shortest route between Europe and Asia; tribal herdsmen still living their primitive life; use of Arab horse, camel and donkey; Islam, founded by Mohammed is one of the three major religions of the world recognizing one God; American University at Beirut, largest American educational unit outside of the United States; compulsory free education; Syrian University in Damascus, here the faculty of medicine gives courses in Arabic; changes in government, various mandates; membership in the League of Nations, United Nations, Arab League; produces red wine, marble silk thread, 80% of the world’s output of dates, tobacco, Mosul bronze, asphalt, one