Pam American
World	AlruavsTeacher
Page 5
last of their race, though thousands of these forest aristocrats can now be found in Cyprus. There is an admirable dignity about these trees, the dignity of a serene old age, for some of them have been standing there for fifteen centuries. Their destruction, however, has meant prosperity for the country, since fields of grain have replaced the forests. In the earlier era of the extensive forests, Lebanon cedar wood was famous. Hiram, King of Tyre, had cedar wood cut and shipped to King Solomon for the building of the temple in Jerusalem. The Pharaohs of several Egyptian dynasties imported cedar for beams and also for coffins, and cedar resin for embalming purposes. The cedar is still the beloved symbol of Lebanon. It appears in the design of the national flag, a symmetrical tree on a snow-white background between two bands of red. The white background is itself a further symbol, for it is said that the word Lebanon, in the language of the old Samaritans, means white — for snow.
Lebanon is a country worthy of our affection.
THE REPUBLIC OF SYRIA
Syria (about 3,700,000 inhabitants), traversed by the Orontes and the Euphrates rivers, is one of the world’s oldest lands. In relatively modern times, it was a mere province of the Ottoman Empire. After World War I, it became a French mandate, and in 1946, after the Second World War, Syria achieved complete independence. Today it is a member of the United Nations. Its principal cities are Damascus, its capital, Aleppo, Homs, and Latakia, Syria’s chief port.
Damascus—A World of Its Own
Damascus, the capital of Syria, claims to be and rightly so the oldest city in the world. It has always been a city. Today, with more than 300,000 inhabitants, it remains the largest city for hundreds of miles around. For Aleppo, way up north, is the nearest city that equals it in size.
The traveler who flies from Beirut to Damascus in about 30 minutes or less, finds himself transported in that short time from one world to another. The contrast is even greater if he arrives during Ramadan, that time of the year in which the faithful Moslem may not eat anything, nor drink anything, not even a few drops of water.
Damascus is a gift of the river Barada. Rising in the Anti-Lebanon mountains, it flows eastward, emerging from a gorge shortly before entering the city’s limits. The Greeks gave the Barada a more romantic name, Chrysorrhoas, or Golden River, presumably because of the wealth its waters brought the region. This river irrigates the extensive surrounding plain called the Ghouta, providing an area of luxuriant orchards, vineyards and gardens for many miles.
The crowded Damascus huddles, as it always has, close to the river, nearly all of the older sections being on the right bank. In the western portion and also in an area just south of the central citadel, Damascus has two rather limited
European sections, with important public buildings, office buildings, banks and shops, while the modern residential sections, on higher ground to the northwest, reveal great wealth and elegance. It is the East, however, that every traveler wants to see, and the crowded, enthralling East is very much in evidence. One enters it, as through a door, only about a hundred yards from the tourist hotels and from the central Merjeh Square — the entrance to the Souk, bazaar, Hamidieh. There you are in the heart of the East. The Souk Hamidieh is a conglomeration of shops and stalls, jammed elbow to elbow, on both sides of a covered thoroughfare fifty feet wide and two-fifths of a mile long. The covering is of corrugated metal, now pierced by thousands of jagged holes, which let in plenty of sunlight. The life in this bazaar is eminently Oriental. There are many other bazaars perhaps more interesting, such as Souk Ar-souniyeh (hardware and pipes which enable the smoker to draw smoke through water), Souk El Harir (silks), Souk El Sagha (jewelry and fine work in gold and silver) and Souk El Bezourieh (Turkish delight and all sorts of sweets). One more famous thoroughfare of bazaars is Souk Midhat Pasha, which is the “street called Straight” of the Biblican narrative.
It will be recalled that Saul of Tarsus, “breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord” (Acts 9:1-27), had come to Damascus to arrest any followers of Jesus and bring them bound to Jerusalem. On the road to Damascus —- still a well-traveled highway — “there shined round about him a light from heaven” by which he was blinded — and converted. His companions led him to the house of one Judas in the street called Straight, and to
that house came a disciple named Ananias, by heavenly command, to cure Saul of his blindness and baptize him. So Saul the Persecutor became Paul the Apostle. A mosque now rises on the exact site — they say — of the house of Judas. Be that as it may, the street called Straight is certainly right there.
From that section the traveler can go directly to the Grand Mosque, one of the noblest structures in the Near East. The Grand Mosque is a sight of such rare beauty, that some consider it the most beautiful. Once there was there a pagan temple, then a synagogue, then a Christian church and finally this mosque. A legacy of the church, which was dedicated to John the Baptist, is the head of John enshrined in a sarcophagus surrounded by a grille of gilded bronze. This is the chief sight within the mosque and Moslems revere the relic, entertaining no doubts whatever of its authenticity. Islam always honors the important figures of the Christian faith, especially Christ himself. One of the three tall minarets of the Grand Mosque is officially named the “Jesus Minaret”, this being the point, one is told, upon which Jesus shall descend on the Judgment Day to confound Antichrist.
Your visit to the Grand Mosque will be really rewarding. The splendor of the building is overwhelming. Its dimensions are 435 feet by 126 and its height is 63 feet, the roof resting on massive columns of beautiful marble. Adjacent to the mosque is the main court, larger than the mosque itself, surrounded by arcades. One may leave the mosque by the Lime Burners’s Portal to visit the Mausoleum of Saladin. He was, as you may remember, one of the great and noble figures of all times. Who has heard of his magnanimity and chivalry, matching