Pah Amer[ca\
World	Alruavs Teacher
Page 7
CROSS ROADS OF THE MIDDLE EAST
The economics of Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Iraq
Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq occupy one of the oldest inhabited and least familiar regions in the world. They are part of an area known by many names,— the Middle East, the Near East, the Bible Lands and the Ancient World to name a few. For thousands of years Asiatic and European armies, travelers and traders have skirted the Mediterranean Sea through these lands as they encompass the most important single trade route between the East and West. Today air routes crisscross the region in the same way that caravan routes did in ancient times.
It is difficult for the people of the United States to comprehend the lives and aspirations of the Arab people in the Middle East. Until modern times we had little commercial or strategic interest in the area. However, today circumstances have combined to make it essential that we not only understand and respect these nations but that they develop a trust and respect for us. The Middle East is strategically important due to its location with respect to Soviet Russia and the fact that to Russia the area represents a road to warmer waters and open seas. Furthermore the Middle East contains some of the world’s richest oil deposits which are vital to our economic well being in time of war or peace.
LEBANON
The central pivot of the Middle East and a natural bridge between Europe and Asia is the tiny Republic of Lebanon. From 1920 to 1943 the nation, consisting of the former Turkish provinces of Lebanon and Beirut, was a French mandate. In 1943, however, Lebanese desire for self-government reached a climax and an independent Republic came into existence. Its capital and largest city, Beirut, has about 400,000 inhabitants. By Pan American World Airways Flying Clipper one-stop service, Beirut is only 24i/z hours away from New York. By ship the trip would take from 14 to 21 days, depending on the steamship line used.
Lebanon, bordered on the east by Syria and on the north by Nahr el Kebir forms a strip along the Mediterranean Sea about 120 miles in length and from 30 to 35 miles in width. The Republic’s total area is approximately 4,300 square miles — a little smaller than the State of Connecticut. Its population is estimated at 1,500,000*— a little larger than that of the State of Nebraska. The country is mainly mountainous with a fertile valley lying in the center between the Lebanon Mountains sloping toward its western Mediterranean coast and the Anti-Lebanon Mountains which form the country’s eastern Syrian border.
Along the country’s mountain slopes, apples, plums, cherries, pears and peaches are cultivated while along the coastal plain are oranges, olive and lemon groves. Wheat, barley, corn, potatoes, onions and tobacco are grown. Cattle, goats, buffalo, sheep and horses are raised. Almost nine-tenths of the working population is engaged in agricul-
By Lou A. Phillips
ture. About one-tenth of the national income-earners are industrial workers with a small number engaged in handicrafts. Industries include textiles, cement, olive oil, tobacco products, soap, matches, petroleum refining, gasoline and leather. Actually on a per capita basis Lebanon is more highly industrialized than Egypt.
Nearly half of Lebanon’s population lives in the cities of Beirut, Tripoli, Saidi and Zahle. The rural population is very mobile and recently has been moving more and more to the cities. Beirut’s business and government section has many new modern buildings which provide a vivid contrast to the City’s Bab Edriss quarter with its labyrinth of streets and alleyways. It is one of the most cosmopolitan cities of the Middle East and its port is the most active on the East Mediterranean Coast. Beirut’s only reminder of the Crusades is the Great Mosque of El Omari, formerly the Church of St. John the Baptist, which was erected by the Knights Hospitaliers. Its museums hold many archaeological finds including Phoenician pottery and ancient treasures of all kinds including the oldest alphabetic inscription known to history.
Nineteen miles from Beirut is Byblos, one of the oldest cities in the world, which existed long before Tyr and Sidon as the trading center and religious city of the Phoenicians. After them Byblos was ruled by Alexander the Great, the Romans, the Arabs and the Crusaders. Shaken by earthquakes, the city was reconstructed but never regained its former splendor. Byblos’ remains include a Phoenician temple and walls from the Third Century B.C., as well as castles, churches, walls and a port erected by the Crusaders dating from the Twelfth and Thirteenth centuries.
Tripoli, fifty-five miles from Beirut, was an important port in Phoenician times. During the Crusades it was also a great trading center until it was captured and destroyed in the Thirteenth Century. The new city, a little way from the old one, has become one of the Near East’s principal cities and Lebanon’s second capital. Baalbek, fifty-two miles from Beirut is surrounded by an oasis in the midst of the beautiful Bekaa Valley, The Garden of Eden of the Biblical era. In former times cedars covered the mountains of Lebanon and made the Phoenicians rich as they used them to build their galleys. King Solomon bought cedarwoocl for his temples in Jerusalem. Pharaohs and Caliphs alike used the seemingly endless supply of wood. Today few cedars remain, but those which still stand are more than a thousand years old.
It may seem strange that a review of the economy of Lebanon as well as the economies of Syria, Jordan and Iran which follow should dwell to so great an extent on examples of life in those lands in Ancient and Biblical Times. These examples of the past, however, are being translated every year into thousands of dollars which raise national incomes far above what they nor-
mally would be otherwise. Tourism is an industry in the Middle East which often is one of the major factors in enabling these nations to earn the purchasing power necessary to buy abroad the essential items they cannot produce at home but which they need to raise their standards of living.
SYRIA
Modern Syria lies between Lebanon and Iraq. It has an area of 71,000 square miles — slightly larger than North Dakota and a population of 3,655,000 — slightly larger than that of Georgia. Originally part of Turkey, the nation together with Lebanon was made a mandate of France after the First World War. It gained its independence during the Second World War, with Lebanon, in 1943.
Syria consists largely of desert surrounded by mountains. In the northeast, the Euphrates flows across the desert and irrigates a valuable strip of agricultural land. Other fertile areas are found in the northwest and southwest. Agriculture is the principal occupation of the people, the leading products being wheat, corn, barley, sorghum, silk cocoons and cotton. Fruit is raised in large quantities, the most important fruit trees being the olive, mulberry, lemon, banana and orange. The only manufactures of importance are flour, textiles, silk thread and soap although leather, glass and wine are produced. A considerable foreign trade is carried on through ports on the Mediterranean coast.
More than half of Syria’s population lives in cities of which the largest is Damascus with 330,000 people, Aleppo, Hama, Hams, Latakia and Deu-Ezzor. Damascus rises from the fertile banks of the Barado River and is set in the middle of a fruitful plain, inland from the east coast of the Mediterranean. It is divided into three quarters; the Modern City with its wide tree-lined avenues and comfortable restaurants and hotels; the Kurdish Quarter with its narrow and picturesque streets; and the Quarter of the Market with its world famous bazaar and its mosques and palaces.
The Damascus oasis stretches for a distance of eighteen miles and its beauty has been renowned throughout the ages. The City is an important trade center and the home of such industries as the production of silk, cotton, damask, glass, soap and beautiful jewelry. The celebrated Damascus steel, formerly made there, is no longer manufactured. During the Middle Ages Damascus was famed for its elaborately figured silken fabrics and gave its name to this type of cloth. Today, however, the name Damask is applied to silk linen or cotton fabrics which are formed by the contrasts between different interlacings of white thread on white thread so that a design stands out.
Aleppo, 220 miles from Damascus, has a population of 400,000. It is a Twelfth Century Citadel, and has a museum with valuable Hittite, Sumerian and Assyrian collections; a vaulted labyrinth fourteen miles