Page 6
Pah Am FRîca/v
World Alrmys Teacher
his genius in war against the Crusaders? II fut moult bon Sarazin, wrote a medieval French poet.
Aleppo
Aleppo (over 400,000 inhabitants) was the Greek and Biblical Berea. An ancient city on the main caravan route across Syria to Baghdad. Its importance increased after the fall of Almyra. It became a flourishing city of the Bysantine Empire. Later, the Arabs took it in the eleventh century. The Crusaders besieged it fighting against Sala-din who in 1L83 made it his stronghold. It was a great commercial center under the Ottoman Turks. With the independence of Syria, Aleppo has recovered its importance. Today it has silk and cotton textile industries and much trade in wool, hide and fruit.
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Jordan, formerly known as Transjordan, is an independent state. It used to be an Arab state in the Palestine mandate. Its boundaries have not yet been finally determined, particularly its western border with Israel. Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia are the countries with which Jordan has boundaries. In 1946, Jordan became independent.
Under the 1952 Constitution, the legislative power is vested in Parliament. The Senate (House of Notables) is composed of 24 members nominated by the King; the House, composed of 40 members, is elected by the people. The Kingdom has about 1,500,000 inhabitants.
Amman (12,000 inhabitants) is the capital and royal residence. It is on the Wadi Zerka (or Jabbok), northeast of the Dead Sea. Amman is the Biblical Rabbah.
Some of the most sacred places, including Bethlehem and vital portions of Old Jerusalem, are under Arab control, administered by Jordan. For those who wish to follow, step by step, the Bible narratives,
of both the Old and the New Testament, the international situation is not very clear at present. But it will not be very long before everything is settled satisfactorily.
In the Jordan side of Jerusalem are the Sacred Enclosure where Abraham is supposed to have prepared the sacrifice of Isaac; the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, which marks the place where the body of our Lord had lain; the Golgotha, and the Garden of Gethsemane, all these places respected by the Arabs. Bethlehem, Jericho, Samaria, Hebron, Jerash and Petra are also in Jordan.
IRAQ
Iraq, known formerly as Mesopotamia, is the area between the Euphrates and the Tigris rivers. Iraq is the Arab name of this territory which includes the former Turkish Vilayets of Basra, Baghdad and Mosul. It lies between Turkey, Iran, the Persian Gulf, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, and Jordan and Syria. The Baghdad railroad links Iraq and Turkey, connecting the cities of Iraq, Mosul, Baghdad and Basra. The latter mentioned cities have modern airports. Iraq was for a time under a British mandate which ended in 1932, the year in which it was recognized as a sovereign state and a member of the League of Nations. Today, Iraq is a member of the United Nations.
The Tigris-Euphrates valley is the legendary cradle of the human race, regarded by some Biblical scholars as the original garden of Eden. It was here where the ancient cities of Nineveh and Babylon flourished. Ur, the most ancient city in the world as yet discovered, was built more than 6,000 years ago.
The 1924 Constitution provided for a constitutional hereditary monarchy, a Chamber of Deputies of 142 members, elected for four years, and a Senate, which may not exceed one-fourth of the number of Depu-t ties, appointed by the King.
The capital of Iraq is Baghdad. This name suggests so many stories that one cannot resist the temptation of quoting that beautiful piece written by Edith Wharton in A Backward Glance. One might call it a tryst in Baghdad. “One day when the Sultan was in his palace at Damascus a beautiful youth who was his favorite rushed into his presence, crying out in great agitation that he must fly at once to Baghdad, and imploring leave to borrow his Majesty’s swiftest horse. The Sultan asked why he was in such haste to go to Baghdad. ‘Because,’ the youth answered, ‘as I passed through the garden of the palace just now, Death was standing there, and when he saw me he stretched out his arms as if to threaten me, and I must lose no time in escaping from him.’ The young man was given leave to take the Sultan’s horse and fly; and when he was gone the Sultan went down indignantly into the garden, and found Death still there. ‘How dare you make threatening gestures at my favorite?’ he cried; but Death, astonished, answered: ‘I assure your Majesty I did not threaten him. I only threw up my arms in surprise at seeing him here, because I have a tryst with him tonight in Baghdad’.” Baghdad was such a gorgeous city!
Baghdad
Baghdad, capital of Iraq (about 400,000 inhabitants), is on both banks of the Tigris and 25 miles north of the Euphrates. In antiquity, it was a center point of desert travel and trade, occupying an unrivaled position. In a zone of gardens, it justified its claim to be the “Abode of the Peace,” when under the caliph Harun al-Rashid it rose to be one of the greatest cities of Islam. Scholars and artists were welcomed there, and the city enjoyed wealth through the sale of its silks and tiles. The Thousand and One Nights reflects those days of glory, for the tales of that book are set in Baghdad. The usual tragedy of many centuries fell upon the city — wars, invasions, conquests.
The greatest part of the city lies on the eastern bank of the Tigris river, which is crossed by a bridge of boats. Old Baghdad, the residence of the Caliphs, now in ruins, are on the western bank. The modern city is greatly improved, the streets are paved, and roads are being built. Communications are many — by air, road, rail, and water. It is crowded with large bazaars where one can indulge in a purchasing spree. The railroad from Baghdad to the port of Basra, 854 miles, passes the ancient cities of Ur of the Chaldeans, Babylon, and Kieh. But Baghdad remains a city of legend and history, as interesting as few cities can be in the Near East.
Salam aleik
Salam aleik is Arab greeting to the visitor and aleik salam when he departs. It is a beautiful sounding expression, a welcoming greeting meaning “Peace be with you”. You will associate it with your experience in those four countries, and you will remember it when you return home. And just think, on Pan American World Airways you can be there in less than 24 hours!
BEIRUT—LEBANON. Fisherman tending his nets along the shore.