Pan American
4	World Airways Teacher	March, 1952
'GLASGO'
SHANNON AIRPOR-
: • ': '
AZORES
USBOA

BENELUX COUNTRIES
(Belgium, Netherlands and Luxemburg)
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
Notes:
1.	To many the name Holland is a more familiar one. Netherlands, however is the proper name for the entire country. Throughout this issue both names will be used.
2.	Variations in spelling will also be found. Sometimes we see Luxembourg and other times Luxemburg. The same applies to Bruxelles and Brussels. On the map on this page you will find Lisboa (Portugal) in place of Lisbon. We find that the Air Lines often use the non-anglicised spelling of places.
1.	Problem:
Should we not become more familiar with the smaller nations of Europe so that we may know how they continue to maintain their positions in world trade and world relations among the larger nations of the world?
1.1.	Reasons for selection:
1.	Why was Benelux founded?
2.	What is the background of the nations which entered Benelux?
3.	What were their problems? May other nations be found which have similar problems?
4.	So many from these countries have contributed to the culture of America. Who were some of them?
5.	So many products from these lands are in constant use in the United States. Why?
6.	We have read so many stories about these people, particularly those of Holland. We ought to know more about them.
7.	The Benelux countries have been in the news very often of late.
2.	Probable Duration: Three weeks
3.	Launching the Unit:
3.1.	Approach
1.	The “Land of the Wooden Shoes” has always been an intriguing subject to children. Many stories and pictures may be used.
2.	Wooden shoes, windmills, milk carts, tulips, diamonds, laces, rugs, cheese, all may be presented as words just to start the children talking about things they have heard, read and seen.
3.	In talking of Franklin Delano Roosevelt we often heard that he was of “Dutch” ancestry.
4.	The names Van Dyck, Rubens, Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Memling, Maeterlinck, have been seen by many. Perhaps they would like to know more about them.
5.	In their previous studies the children have heard about the Pilgrims sailing from Holland. They have learned about Henry Hudson, The Dutch in New Amsterdam, etc. Many times names such as Harlem, Staten Island, Brooklyn, Flushing, Rhode Island, Utrecht, have been referred to as of “Dutch” origin.
6.	The names Paul-Henri Spaak, Mrs. Perle Mesta, King Leopold III, Queen Julianna have been in the news recently. Present clippings mentioning these names.
7.	Bulb sales may lead to- a discussion of the many that have been brought from abroad, specifically from Holland.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What contributions to the culture of the United States in the form of art have come from these countries? In literature?
2.	Why are these countries bound so closely together?
3.	How have these countries been able to maintain their positions among other much larger nations of the world?
4.	What is there about the customs of these peoples which has made reading about their countries so interesting?
5.	What part did these nations take in the forming of the United Nations?
6.	Why are these countries called the “low” countries?
7.	How have these small nations managed to remain “free when so many other small ones have fallen under the “iron curtain?”
(For additional problems refer to 1.1—Reasons for Selection)
4.	Expected Outcomes:
4.1. Subject Matter
1. Social Studies:
Location, climate, resources, life of people, population, education and culture, industries and products. exports and imports, contributions of famous peoples, famous places, transportation, government, current events. (Social Studies material may be found in the pages that follow)
2.	Language Arts:
1.	new words
2.	spelling (take special note of the varied spelling of some names) see how many places in the United States have anglicised “Dutch” names.
3.	letters, asking for information; telling about imaginary trips to these lands; to people who have visited these countries asking them for information (or if possible ask them to visit the classroom); Pen-Pals (correspondence with children of these countries arranged through the Junior Red Cross).
4.	compositions, a diary of a little Dutch girl; a story about a country smaller than the state of Rhode Island; creative writing about the dikes and windmills; a day on skates; bicycling to school; a trip through a rug factory; all about lace making, cheese, diamonds; lands of famous painters; a story about a famous picture; a book review on a story of one of these countries.
5.	literature, “In Flanders Field” —John Me Crae; “Hans Brin-ker”,-—Dodge; Henrik Willem Van Loon; Pierre van Paassen, Maurice Maeterlinck; refer to Bibliography for many stories about these countries.
3.	Science:
1.	Problems created by lands below sea level. How were these problems solved? How was much more of the land made usable?
2.	Why do many of the people wear wooden shoes?
3.	The windmill
4.	Problems created by dense population and how science has helped to solve some.
4.	Health:
1.	The extreme cleanliness of the people of these lands.
2.	Health problems created by dense population.
3.	Exceptionally good health of the people of these lands. (Holland has one of the lowest death rates in the world.)
4.	Differences in types of foods. Meal menus.
(Continued on page 11)