Pan Amerìcàti
March, 1952	World Alrways Teacher	n
About half the Dutch soil is pasture land, . feeding large herds of livestock. ^Cattle are kept mainly for dairy purposes ^and provide the basis for a large milkprocessing industry. The quality of the herds has been raised to a high standard by large-scale rearing of pedigreed stock. Holland is also known for its draught and farm horses, pigs, sheep and poultry. Since the arable land supplies large quantities of animal feed such as beetroot and turnips, cattle breeding and everything connected with it, is of great importance to Dutch agriculture.
Fishing is important to Holland’s food supply. Dutch herring, oysters, mussels and fresh sea fish are well known. Large quantities of these are exported. Fresh water eels and other fish are delicacies much in demand. In 1946, after many centuries of inactivity, whaling was resumed.
Holland is poor in natural resources and practically all of the raw materials needed for her industries with the exception of coal, salt and some oil, must be imported. By-products from the coal industry include coke and briquettes and chemical products which account for an important part of the nation’s industrial production. Many other industries depend on the output of the chemical plants for their own production of fertilizers, plastics, dyes, pharmaceutical products, alcohol, lubricants, soap, rayon, paint, perfumes, road surfacing materials, insecticides and disinfectants. These articles form a large proportion of Holland’s ex-I ports. Domestic oil resources satisfy about 30% of home demand. Crude oil is transported to refineries near Rotterdam which are the largest in operation in Western Europe. Salt production exceeds home consumption and 60% of domestic supplies are exported.
Industry in Holland employs nearly 40% of the working population, a high percentage in view of the shortage of domestic raw materials. Due to Holland’s geographic position and its extensive system of waterways, such materials can be easily imported. Dutch industries are primarily processing industries, in which raw materials from elsewhere are processed into saleable home products.
The country is the largest exporter of pig iron in the world. Besides pig iron, the iron and steel industry also produces steel, rolled steel products and cast-iron pipe. Many rolling mill products are used in the shipbuilding industry as Holland is one of the world’s leading ship building nations with more than three hundred shipyards. The Dutch metal working industry which includes manufacturing concerns engaged in the production of steel furniture, hardware, heating and cooking appliances, and pressed steel radiators, accounts for about 25% of the total industrial output. The wire industry produces about 10% of the output of the entire Dutch metal industry.
The list of Dutch products in the field of transportation is extensive ranging from small bicycle parts to electric trains, road trailers and aircraft. Electrical products are exported in large quantities. Among them are radio sets and parts, transmitters, dynamos and generators and high grade scientific and electro-medical equipment such as X-ray tubes and machines and
Black Star
WOODEN SHOES still are worn in many parts of Holland, especially in the country districts. The children remove them when they get to school, and leave them in the corridor outside the classroom.
electron microscopes. About 15% of all industrial labor in the country is employed in the textile industry which supplies 90% of the home demand and 16% of the total industrial export. Its most important products are cotton, rayon and wool materials.
The Netherlands’ food and beverage industry is one of the oldest in the country and owes much to the development of agricultural techniques. Besides domestic products, a number of agricultural and forestry products from tropical countries are processed and put on the market. This industry contributes more than 26% of Holland’s total exports. Dutch condensed milk is known for its quality and milk powder, full cream powder, buttermilk powder, whey powder and casein are also produced. One-third of the domestic production of butter is exported and some is even packed in tin containers for use in the tropics. Production of butter, as well as of other dairy and animal products, is controlled by the Government. Cheese making also is officially supervised and only cheese that bears the Government stamp may be exported.
Holland has more than 200 large canning factories for meat, fish, vegetables and fruit. Cabbage is the principal canned vegetable with French beans, silverskinned onions, gherkins, spinach, endive and asparagus also canned in considerable quantities. Gin and liqueurs have been distilled in Holland as far back as the Seventeenth Century and the nation ranks first among Continental beer exporters. An average of forty-eight million Dutch cigars are exported yearly and Amsterdam has long been the center of the tobacco trade.
About 50 large and small factories are engaged in the manufacture of chocolate bars, icings and coverings, cocoa butter, boiled sweets and caramels. Other products making up the variety of foodstuffs made in the Netherlands are potato flour,
cake, rusk, biscuits, margarine, sugar and edible oils. Other industries important to export trade are the woodworking, leather, ceramic, paper and printing industries.
For relatively small nations, Belgium and Holland have been good customers of the United States. In fact they have traditionally bought more from this country than they have been able to sell here. They both need United States dollars to aid in strengthening their economies and they both produce commodities which the United States can use. Therefore increased purchases on our part from Belgium-Luxem-bourg and the Netherlands will not only fill actual needs but will help to attain greater economic stability in an important section of Western Europe.
BENELUX COUNTRIES
(Continued from page 4)
5.	Seasonal sports and games.
6.	Folk dancing.
5.	Music
Dutch and Flemish records and folk dances.
6.	Art
Paintings of Rembrandt, Van Gogh, Van Dyck, Rubens, Mem-ling, Jordaens, Snyders, Brueghel, and others.
7.	Mathematics
Population and areas of these countries. Relationship between them. Why are they referred to as "densely populated”? Air miles to these countries. Differences in methods of travel.
4.2.	Skills
1.	Improvement in research and the use of many and varied resources.
2.	Variety in the presenting of reports.
3.	Frequent use of maps and globes.
4.	Discussing and solving problems.
5.	Intelligent questioning.
4.3 Attitudes, Interests, Understandings
1.	An interest in the customs of these lands.
2.	An understanding of the reasons behind Benelux.
3.	An appreciation of the difficulties these people have overcome.
4.	A greater appreciation of all they have contributed to art and literature.
5.	An understanding of the parts they have taken in world relations, past and present.
6.	A desire to learn more of other nations and the parts they take in world relations.
7.	An understanding of what often happens to small nations like these in great wars and of how the inhabitants strive to get back on their feet again.
5.	Suggested Experiences:
5.1.	Exhibits of products from these countries.
5.2.	Dramatizations of many of the lovely stories.
5.3.	An art exhibit and stories of the famous painters.
5.4.	Creative work in prose, poetry, music and art after seeing, hearing and reading about these countries.
5.5.	Maps on which are shown birth places, famous places, products and other interesting facts.
5.6.	Movies and slides made to keep a permanent record of all interesting facts learned.
(any of the above may be used separately or combined as a culmination)
6.	Materials of Instruction:
6.1.	Trips,
6.2.	Audio and visual aids.
6.3.	Printed materials.
6.4.	Models and samples.
6.5.	Loans of replicas of these famous paintings.
6.6.	People in the school and community.