6
Brussels has a special meaning for every Belgian. The merchant will tell you about the fine gloves, the beautiful laces, the fine glassware and carpets that can be found in the city stores. The artist will point with pride to its boulevards and lovely parks, its museums and palaces. The average citizen will say that the Grand’ Place is the heart of the capital. It was in this Grand’ Place, in front of the Town Hall that the Good Duke was proclaimed the ruler of Brussels and Charles V of Spain announced his abdication. Here are honored the great and the small, the dukes and the caterers, the magistrate and the fisherman. The Houses of the Corporations are here. They speak eloquently of the essential Belgian trades. Each has its own sign. The Miller’s has a wind-mill ; the Boatman’s, the stern of a ship ; the Chandler’s has a wheelbarrow. Victor Hugo lived at 27 Grand’ Place.
Though the Grand’ Place is filled with memories of the past, it is also an impressive setting for the living. In the evening every window is lighted. Every house has a shop where you can buy religious art objects, lace, little wooden moulds and even saucepans and brooms. On the three sides of the Grand’ Place are restaurants ranging from the little tavern to the fashionable hostelry and exclusive club.
The museums and palaces of Brussels are the pride of Europe. The city loves processions, flags, bands, cavalcades and parades, as much as Americans do. The climax of such pleasures is the Ommegang held every five years or so. This is a living fresco more than a mile long. History and legend escape for a spell into real life from the limits of museums and books, and take the open road. It is as though dukes, burghers, abbesses, peasants, saints and gargoyles were to descend from the carved façades and balconies of the Grand’ Place, to rehearse in a few hours the summons of the Last Judgment for the wonderment of these modern Bruxellois.
The City of Rubens
Antwerp is Belgium’s greatest port. From the air you can seç in the distance a medley of masts in the estuary, the multiple and continually moving silhouette of cranes, the swarm of factory chimneys and the magnificent cluster of churches, hotels and painted roofs, the sharp-pointed clocktowers, with a thousand turrets and the cathedral spire.
Antwerp will bring to your memory the names of artists who never die. There you can trace again the family life that Rubens loved so much in the intervals between his journeys, and the great studio where Jordaens and Snyders, Van Dyck and others worked under the paternal authority of the Master.
There is no street which does not display at every corner some statue crowned with a canopy. You can count in one day more than a hundred. They were the work of sculptors aspiring to enter the Guild of St. Luke. To qualify for that honor they each had to produce a masterpiece.
In Antwerp nights are noisy and lively. Everywhere you can hear Flemish, English, Swedish, and French. Antwerp is a cosmopolitan port. It welcomes all races and makes them its own.
Pan AmerrcA\
World Airways Teacher	March’ 1952
Black Star
ECOLE OR SCHOOL in any language, it is necessary to post warnings so that drivers will be careful when passing a school building.
Antwerp gave Rubens the place of honor. He began life as the page of a noble lady. Soon he attracted the attention of the great by his talent and culture. Sent to Italy, he studied at Venice in the schools of Titian, Veronese and Tintoretto and was noticed by the Duke of Mantua. From that moment his fortune increased. He went to Rome and Florence and was honored by the Pope. Rubens was sent as ambassador to Spain, France and England. Everywhere he received honors and gifts. But always, Antwerp was his home.
Holland is in the Netherlands
The name Holland belongs originally to the low pasture land which in many places is several feet below sea level. However, it is commonly used for the entire kingdom. Netherlands is a better name for the country, but even the Dutch themselves use Netherlands only in writing. Holland is the largest part of the Netherlands. In Holland proper are the principal cities—-Amsterdam, Haarlem, Leyden, The Hague, Delft, Rotterdam. Some people still think of Holland in terms of tulips and hyacinths, of windmills, wooden shoes and Alkmaar cheese; of the undeniable charm of costume villages such as Volendam, Staphorst and others in Zeeland Province. This annoys some Dutchmen almost beyond bearing. Plolland, they say, offers much more to be enjoyed by the discriminating traveler.
Holland’s coast-line consists of a continuation of wide beaches bordered by rows of white-sanded dunes. The sand dunes are a typical feature of the North Sea. coast. The dunes do not always prove an impregnable bulwark. The wind blows the sand away and keeps changing the formation of the dunes. The Dutch, however, have found a way of giving the sand greater solidity. They have planted a tough, hardy grass, called helm, which holds the sand together with its roots and lessens the impact of the wind. Over a thousand years ago the North
Sea broke through. The Zeeland Province of today—a group of islands—was once part of the mainland. Zeeland coat of arm^ is a lion halfway submerged by the wave^. but struggling to keep head and shoulders above water. The inscription makes the lion say in Latin “Luctor et Emergo” (I struggle and emerge).
Over ten million people now live within the small territory of Holland. By enormous labor and expense the nation is adding a bit of land here and there, taken from the resentful sea. Holland is scarcely larger than Maryland; yet it has about five times the population though Maryland is one of the more populated States. How do the Dutch people attack the problem of housing congestion and scarcity of land? One method is by increasing building construction. The other is by adding more land— from the sea—for farming families.
Holland’s water war to gain and retain the soil of the sea is one of the sustained dramas of Europe. And since the world insists upon a hero for every war, one was long ago furnished by the American authoress Mary Mapes Dodge. He is the Dutch boy, a lockkeeper’s son, described in Hans Brinker: or the Silver Skates. The boy noticed that sea water was trickling through a tiny hole in a dike. At this sign of an impending break which might flood whole villages and their polders (land reclaimed from the waters), he held his finger in the dike all night until he was finally seen and relieved. The boy who held back the sea and saved his people, though entirely^ fictional, was honored with a statue in June,^*' 1950, at Spaarndam, outside Haarlem.
Adventurous Dutch
Holland possesses a high cultural inheritance from past centuries. Although representing a small percentage of the European population, the Dutch people have had more than their share of European cultural honors. In the artistic field, there is hardly a public art gallery anywhere that does not contain paintings of the Dutch school. In its golden age, Holland had more painters than bankers, butchers and tailors. Thinkers and scientists from every country flocked to Holland as the only haven of freedom.
It was not mere accident that the Pilgrims of the “Mayflower” set sail for America from a. port in the Netherlands. Henry Pludson was an Englishman, but his ship “The Half Moon” came from Amsterdam, and Hudson made the voyage in the employ of Dutch merchants. Dutch merchants founded the West India Company in 1624, a trading post in Manhattan, under the protection of a fort called New Amsterdam. England captured the island and re-christened New York in honor of James, Duke of York, brother of King Charles II.
Many Dutch names have remained unchanged to the present day. Staten Island was thus called for the States General, the Assembly of delegates from the seven $ United Provinces. Brooklyn is the god-child of the Dutch town of Breukelen, Flushing of Vlissingen. Rhode Island is pure Dutch in English spelling and means Red Island. The Dutch must have come upon it in the fall when the maple turns the region into a mass of fiery red.