Pan Americas?
2	Wok id Airways Teacher	March, 1952
Pan American World A/rwavr Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1952, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
(Continued from page 1)
to Europe. Two main choices of trips are offered, which can be combined into a longer tour, and there are also some subchoices at lower rates.
One plan involves flying to Prestwick, and a tour of Scotland and England, with a visit to London, the entire stay abroad adding up to 10 days. The cost adds up to the round trip tourist fare of $486, plus $100, or $586. Another offering is a flight to London and a tour of Holland and Belgium and five days in Paris for the round trip fare plus $100. The extra amount, in either case, covers ground transportation, hotel meals and certain side trips. The two may be combined for a twenty day tour, with an extra charge of $14.88 for connecting transportation, making the total cost round trip fare plus $214.88.
House of Travel offers a trip abroad with 5 days in London for round trip fare plus $45; trip abroad and 5 days in Paris, round trip fare plus $55, and certain other similar opportunities. See your travel agent, any Pan American World Airways Office, or write to House of Travel at 47 East 47th Street, New York City.
Travel to Latin America
The lowest fares in history will be available between the United States and South America this summer over the routes of Pan American World Airways and Panagra.
Effective on tourist flights to the major cities of the Southern Hemisphere, the excursions will offer a round-trip for the price of a regular fare and a half.
From May 1 through October 31 a ticket from New York to Buenos Aires and back, for example, will be only $675, a saving of $313 under the normal round-trip fare.
The same $675 price covers a Round-South America tour down the east coast to Buenos Aires by PAA and up the west coast by its affiliate, Pan American-Grace Airways, Panagra, or vice versa.
The fares are good for 30 days, permitting ample time for stopovers.
Timed to coincide with the beginning of the first low-cost tourist-class air service between New York and Europe, the fares will give Latin America an even break in the travel competition during the summer vacation season.
Typical bargain excursions from other PAA gateways southward include $555 from Miami to either Rio de Janeiro or Sao Paulo, Brazil, and return and $797 from Los Angeles to Buenos and back.
There are two “super” excursions of 17 days each, a $300 round-trip from Miami to Lima, Peru, and a $385 trip from either New Orleans or Houston to Lima and back.
Because of favorable exchange rates in most Latin countries, tourists from the United States will get equally attractive bargains for their dollars in the cities they visit.
Summer Schools Abroad
San Marcos University, Lima, Peru. Universidad de San Marcos, the University of San Marcos, in Lima, for many years has done an outstanding job in providing-special courses for U.S. students during the summer in the United States (which, of course, is winter in Peru). The announcement this year described the following-courses :
REVALIDATION COURSE: September 15, 1952, to March 15, 1953.
The Revalidation Course at the University of San Marcos serves to revalidate the United States B. A. degree with majors only, however, in Literature, Philosophy, Geography, Arts, Economics, and the Social Sciences. It does not revalidate the degree in Education or Natural Sciences.
INTENSIVE SPANISH COURSE: Throughout the year.
Students desiring to study the language may take private classes with a specially trained teacher assigned by the School of Special Studies. The cost of the course is $125.00 Peruvian soles per month for one hour a week, or four hours a month. Students may take as many hours weekly as desired. A certificate of attendance will be issued to each student.
REGULAR STUDENTS: April 1 to December 31.
A student desiring to pursue regular studies at the University of San Marcos will be aided by the School of Special Studies, which will make arrangements with the several Faculties of the University previous to his arrival.
SPECIAL STUDENTS:
Special students are those who do not desire to obtain credit for their work or to work for degree, but who would like to attend classes. Such students are admitted into any field upon payment of a small fee (US $20.00 a year).
A few folders on Universidad de San Marcos are available in the office of the Educational Director of Pan American World Airways and will be sent on request. However, it is suggested that it would be better to write direct to
ESCUELA DE ESTUDIOS ESPECIALES UNIVERSIDAD NATIONAL MAYOR DE SAN MARCOS Lima, Peru o: Gerente de Trafico
Pan American Grace Airways Lima, Peru
University of Havana Summer School. The University of Havana, one of the
oldest in America, was founded on January 5, 1728, at the Convent of San Juan de Letran by the Dominican friars of the Hoi« Cross. For many years its site was an olcf building, which still stands on O’Reilly Street between San Ignacio and Mercadered Streets. There generation after generation of Cubans received instruction in Medicine, Law, Philosophy, Sciences. The Faculty, which at first consisted almost entirely of clergymen, was ultimately secularized in 1842.
The University of Havana Summer School has been designed mainly for foreigners, though local students are welcomed. The courses offered answer the great demand felt, especially in cultural centers of the United States, for a better knowledge of matters pertaining to Spanish America and Spain.
Furthermore the University of Havana has organized a series of Special Courses in Medicine, intended mainly for Medical Doctors, Special Courses in Education, primarily for Cuban public school teachers. Special Courses in Technical Preparation for Teachers of English specially offered to teachers of English as a foreign language. Special Courses for Professors of Physical Culture, and Special Courses of Odontology, Pharmacy, Veterinary Medicine, Engineering, Dietetics and Library Science.
Write to The Secretary of the Summer School, Havana University, Havana Cuba.
San Carlos of Guatemala. Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala, Guatemala, C.A. (The University of San Carlos in Guatemala) offers courses in Spanish and in the culture of Central America planned especially for students from the United States.
The summer school is in session from July 7 to August 15. A variety of courses in art and anthropology, history, language, literature and related subjects are taught by professors who are natives of Guatemala and by educators from the United States.
Guatemala offers outstanding opportunities for sightseeing during leisure hours, and the university has recognized this by scheduling a series of week-end trips to Antigua, Lake Atitlan-Chichicastenango, Coban (including Cavles of Lanquin) and other points.
Write to:
Robert W. Rosenhouse San Carlos Summer School Apartado Postal 179 Guatemala, Central America
Oslo Summer School, Oslo, Norway. Oslo University has announced that its sixth Summer School for American and Canadian Students will be held from June 21 to August 2, 1952. Open to students who have completed at least their freshman year in any accredited college or university, the 1952 session will feature an Institute for English-Speaking Teachers similar to the one held last summer.
Write to —
Oslo Summer School Admissions Office St. Olaf College Northfield, Minnesota