March, 1952
Dikes and Canals
Any one might say that cities of Holland ^»should be similar in many respects. Though ^ahev have certain features in common, each town has its own special attractions. Of course, all of them were fortified in former days. Each had its ramparts to defend it against attacks. During the last century the ramparts were transformed into parks. Another common feature is the market square with its ancient city hall. And finally, canals are a general characteristic of all. These canals, however, are built differently. In Utrecht, for instance, the streets on either side are high above water level. In Amsterdam the canals are spread out like an open fan. In Delft, they are narrow and the trees form an arch of foliage above the water.
Amsterdam is the metropolis of the Netherlands, the banker, the world trader, the prince of industry—in short, the New York of its country, though not like New York in form or appearance. All roads lead to Amsterdam both on the ground and in the air. Modern residential sections are only a few steps away from the beautiful elm-bordered canals and graceful patrician mansions. It is the center of the diamond cutting industry. It is also the city of Rembrandt and its Rijksmuseum that contains Europe’s best collection of old Dutch Masters. Nearby you will see the Weeping Tower where the sailors’ wives waved farewell to their husbands. Splendid, vigorous, enterprising, Amsterdam is Holland’s pride
eand treasure.
The Hague is a beautiful city. It was never a fortified town. The Hague is the seat of the Netherlands Government, though not the capital. That is because the word capital has a different meaning. To the Dutch it means principal city, and that is Amsterdam. The States General (Dutch parliament) meets in The Hague in an ancient group of buildings that encloses a courtyard with the name of Binnenhof, the Inner Court. On its north side stands the Hall of Knights, the oldest building of The Hague. The Hague is the city of diplomats and statesmen, of elegance, gaiety and refinement. In The Hague you’ll see Mauritshuis, the home of a small but exquisite collection of old paintings, chiefly of the Dutch school. Its most famous pictures are Rembrandt’s Lesson of Anatomy and Vermeer’s magnificent Viezv of Delft. The Peace Palace, Andrew Carnegie’s gift, was inaugurated not long before the outbreak of the First World War. Today the International Court of Justice has its seat permanently there.
Not far from The Hague are the two university towns of Leyden and Delft. Haarlem, near Leyden, is the flower city of Holland. It is also the city of Frans Hals, the great painter. Today Rotterdam is almost a new city. The port and the heart of the city were destroyed during the war. The port has been rebuilt and a new heart 0 j is already beating. It is indeed the proof that the Netherlands will always be young. Little Luxembourg
The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is a tiny country between Belgium, Germany and France. It is even smaller than Rhode Island, and has a population of about 295,000. It is a country of small landowners
Pan American
Wo rio	A/rmys Teacher
Black Star
LUXEMBOURG — This picture shows the lower town. Luxembourg ranks with any country you might name for scenery.
devoted to agriculture and farmed by resident owners. Its mineral output, however, is enormous and includes iron, pig iron and steel. Luxembourg has been overrun by Germany in two world wars. Having been formerly a part of the Germanic Confederation, Luxembourg abolished its unarmed neutrality in 1948, and became a sovereign state. In the same year, Luxembourg became a. member of the Benelux Customs Union, per the 1944 agreement.
By terms of the Constitution, the Legislative power rests with a Chamber of Deputies (51 members). The Executive power is held by a Minister of State and a Cabinet of at least three Ministers. The present ruler is the Grand Duchess Charlotte.
The small industrial corner of Luxembourg, with its mines and factories, is enough to support the whole Grand Duchy. The rest has remained unspoiled and ideal for sight-seeing and holiday-making. The Moselle river flows gently through vineyards and meadows. The pleasant villages are bright with flowers. Canoes and small sailing boats glide down the river. Sportsmen prefer the “Little Switzerland of Luxembourg.” It is not very high but is full of ravines, narrow passes and uproarious cascades which provide plenty of excitement for all.
Ruins and fortresses and castles brood on craigs. In the city of Luxembourg you can take a look at the cathedral built in 1618, the Pont du Chateau, the Three Towers and the Adolph Bridge which has one of the most famous stone arches in all Europe. The Gran Ducal Palace is a Spanish Renaissance building.
The Whit-Tuesday procession in Luxembourg is world famous. Over twenty thousand pilgrims from many neighboring countries take part in it. The procession
moves slowly, carried forward by a strange polka-like rhythm. For 12 hundred years the same music has led the pilgrims. Holding a handkerchief knotted at each end, they go swinging their bodies at each step they take. The procession resembles a huge human wave.
The simplicity and friendliness of the Luxembourg people is contagious to the extent that a holiday feeling seems to prevail everywhere.
Generous to the World
One can never repay the artistic treasures which Belgium and the Netherlands have given to the world. The amazing thing is that for several centuries these two countries sustained a rivalry unexcelled in the field of art. While the Dutch have their Rembrandt, Frans Hals, Johannes Vermeer, Pieter de Hooghe, Jan Steen and a host of others, the Belgians are proud of their Jan Van Eyck, Mending, Breughel, Rubens, Jordaens, Van Dyck and many others. Antwerp belongs to Rubens, Amsterdam to Rembrandt.
During three centuries painting crystallized in those countries their high civilization. In Belgium it expressed the richest characteristics of the Flemish spirit ; in Holland it reflected the purest aspects of Dutch life. It is difficult to separate one school from the other. It is fitting to remember that in those days artists from Holland would serve their apprenticeships at Bruges or Antwerp and finish their careers in Brussels, and vice-versa. The 17th century, for instance, saw simultaneously the appearance of Rembrandt and Rubens.
In other fields, the Low Countries—and we mean all of them—have always been a haven of freedom for those who were victims of persecution in their native lands. They played then the part that the United