Pam Amerícam m i ? reto
World Airways Teacher
March, 1952
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL, VIII No. 4
EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
Rainbow Clipper Tourist Service Will Aid Teacher Student Travel in 1952
The Rainbow Clipper Tourist Service across the Atlantic to' Europe will be inaugurated by Pan American World Airways on May 1.
The fare rate which is available to teachers and students (and to the public generally) is illustrated by the following:
One way	Round trip
from New York from New York
Ireland	$241.00	$433.80
London	270.00	486.00
Paris	290.00	522.00
Frankfort	313.10	563.60
Fall and winter off season round trip rates are still less.
The saving, as compared with the regular first class fare, is $225.00 on a summer round trip to Europe.
Tourist type service, as has been pointed out in previous issues of World Airways Teacher, is exactly the same as first class .service in so far as the ground and air -operation of the airplane is concerned. The difference consists in less elaborate service aboard the airplane and a type of seating-described as “high density,” which permits more persons to be carried in the airplane.
Tourist type scheduled air service probably is a familiar matter to most World Airways Teacher readers because it has been in existence elsewhere on Pan American World Airways System and on the routes of domestic air lines for several years.
The first tourist type service w7as started by Pan American World Airways between New York and San Juan, Puerto Rico in 1948. Introduction of tourist service to San Juan resulted in a three-fold increase in traffic to San Juan. Also, instead of cutting the volume of first class service, it actually helped to promote that service so that the volume of traffic on de luxe aircraft increased.
Tourist type service also has been available for some time on routes to Latin America.
In order to make flying to Europe as convenient as possible for those who wish to travel for educational reasons, the air line, in conjunction with travel agents, has worked out various types of package tours in which hotel accommodations, sightseeing, and educational features are included.
► As an example, the Consolidated Educational Travel Plan is offered by Consolidated Tours, in New York.
Consolidated Educational Travel Plan
Consolidated offers a very flexible plan under which one may join a tour for anywhere from one week to the entire summer. The one week package is priced at
Black Star
TOURIST SERVICE — This is the Douglas 6B, 82-passenger airplane, which will be used on the PAA Atlantic tourist service.
$598.00, each additional weekly section adds $90.00 to the price and the entire 79 day program may be purchased for $1498.00.
The Consolidated tour involves travel from New York City to London and the first section of the tour includes London, Windsor, Oxford, and the Shakespeare country. One may start this one week section on any of ten Sundays from June 8 to' August 10.
There is a series of eleven such one week sections including—in addition to' England —Scotland and the Norwegian Fjords; Oslo, Stockholm, Copenhagen; Holland, Belgium, and the Rhineland; Germany, Salzburg, and the Tyrol; Switzerland Lakes and Glaciers; Italy-Verona, Venice, Padua, Florence, Siena; Rome and the bay of Naples (Capri, Pompei) ; The South of France and Catalania; Spain and the French Chateau Country; Paris-Versailles, the Trianons and Malmaison.
The Plan includes travel in Europe, stays in attractive hotels, all meals, visits to museums, palaces, and significant institutions. Each group will be accompanied by a specialist in travel and an educational director in order that benefit may be derived
by participants both as to sightseeing and fun, and as to any educational aspects which may be desired.
The tours will be acceptable for credit in some institutions and school systems. For those who desire credit, it is absolutely essential that inquiry be made in advance of the school or school system from which credit is desired. Credit for travel is rather widely allowed throughout the United States, but the standards vary over a great range and therefore it is highly important for those who desire credit that they check in advance as to what may be done in a specific instance.
For detailed information about the Consolidated Educational Travel Plan and to make reservations and bookings, see your own authorized Pan American World Airways travel agent or any Pan American World Airways ticket office.
Another offering of interest to' students and teachers is that of House of Travel.
House of Travel
A package plan offered by the House of Travel is based upon the Rainbow Clipper Tourist fare plus $100 for a ten day visit (Continued on page 2)