March, 1952
Pan Amf/r/can
World A/ruave Teacher
9
large in contrast. Together however, Benelux numbers over 18.5 million inhabitants and covers an area of 28,538 square miles.
^ To give their people a satisfactory standard of living, Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg need many commodities from the rest of the world. To obtain these goods they must sell their own produce to the world. Therefore foreign trade is an essential part of their economies. Before World War II, the three Benelux countries and their overseas territories together accounted for 8.5% of the world’s trade, ranking fourth among commercial nations (after Great Britain, the United States and Germany-Austria). Leaving out their mutual trade, their share was 6.1%. Benelux is a great buyer of basic textile materials, cereals, seeds, fats, ores, timber, minerals, fuel, vehicles, boilers, machinery, hides and skins. It sells iron and steel, textiles, chemicals, precision tools, electrical machinery, ships, glassware, milk, dairy produce, eggs, vegetables, potatoes, cocoa and flour products.
BELGIUM
Belgium is one of the most densely populated and highly industrialized countries in the world with three times as many people engaged in industry as in agriculture. Its soil, which once contained large amounts of coal, iron, zinc and other raw materials valuable to industrialization, is exhausted of everything except coal and practically all other mineral supplies have to be imported from abroad. Less strategic raw materials found in abundance in Belgium have become the basis of thriving industries including paving and building stone, limestone for bricks or tile, clay for china and crockery and sand deposits used in the manufacture of glass and mirrors.
The most important single factor in Belgium’s continued industrial growth despite a lack of most mineral resources is its one and only colony, the African Congo. This territory, acquired in 1908, is eighty times as large as its motherland and is a rich source of needed raw materials, many virtually untouched until recent years. One of its principal resources is copper.
The Congo stands fifth among the world’s copper producing countries and exports about a sixth of the world’s annual supply. Other Congo metals now, or to be mined extensively include zinc, cobalt, tin, cadmium and wolfram, all economically and strategically valuable. In addition, the Congo is believed to contain one-half of the world’s known supply of uranium ore of which the United States is the sole purchaser. The Colony is by far the world’s leading producer of industrial diamonds with millions of carats of such stones being exported every year, mainly to the United States.
Despite extensive mining activity, the Congo’ is still essentially an agricultural nation with the majority of its population deriving their livelihood from the soil. However, the leading crops, such as pyrethrum and palm oil, are of an industrial nature. Other products are coffee, rubber, sugar, cocoa, peanuts, tobacco, rice and castor and other essential oils. Lumber is also an important agricultural product.
* A tariff is a systematic arrangement of customs duties which are levied on goods when they pass the border of a political unit.
Millions of acres of timber cover the Congo, supplying lumber for industrial purposes and rare woods for fine furniture. These include blond korina, mahogany and ebony as well as wood pulp for newsprint and allied paper needs.
Economically speaking, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is practically a Belgian province. Although its population is largely agricultural, the country is extremely rich in iron resources and, considering its size, its productive capacity for this metal is enormous. The iron and steel industry of Belgium and Luxembourg is fifth in the world by volume of production and second by volume of exports. The industry has a long history, for as far back as tbe Sixteenth Century Belgian ironfounders went to Sweden and laid the foundation for that country’s world famous iron and steel industry.
Belgium’s engineering and metal manufacturing industry covers a wide and varied range of goods and like iron and steel traces its ancestry back to the craftsmen of the Middle Ages. Finished iron and steel products take many forms including galvanized sheets, tubes, strips, plates, rods, billets and slabs. Fabricated products include motors, transformers, cranes, locomotives and precision tools. The shipbuilding industry is
also an important user of Belgian steel. Though of more recent origin, the Belgian chemical industry is also extensive and varied, producing high-quality chemicals, pharmaceuticals, photographic goods and natural and synthetic rubber manufactures.
For many years Antwerp has been the center of the diamond-cutting industry and the ancient city now produces a major portion of the world’s output of cut gems. The skill of Belgian craftsmen has been handed down from generation to generation and a long and rigorous apprenticeship insures first quality workmanship.
Another field in which the Belgians have long excelled is glassware. Through a skilled labor force and a nearby source of raw materials Belgium has maintained a leading place among the world’s glass producers. It is famous for its tableware, decorative pieces and crystal glass as well as for substantial quantities of window and plate glass. Uniquely designed silverware, woodenware, books and tapestries from Belgium have also gained world-wide renown.
Spinning and weaving, like the use of iron and copper, go back to medieval times when the fame of Flanders cloth, woven to strict standards of quality, spread to every part of the known world. Today, textiles are
TULIPS constitute an important industry in the Netherlands. The man is picking off the blooms and throwing them away! The bulbs are to be sold, perhaps to be shipped to the United States.
Black Star