Pan American
Wo rid Aìrways Teacher
10
still one of the chief manufactures and make a notable contribution to export trade. Cotton specialties include yarns, piece goods, doilies, napkins and scarves. The wool industry is an even more important element in the country’s economy with worsteds, suitings, dress goods and blankets the leading items. Of all the fabrics for which Belgium is widely known, none are more popular than its fine laces and linens. Delicate lace and sturdy linen are used separately and together in a wide variety of decorative and functional pieces which have contributed greatly to the eminent position which Belgium occupies among the producers of quality fabrics.
Artistic weaving has occupied an important place in Belgium’s textile industry since the Fifteenth Century when the city of Brussels was famous for its beautiful tapestries. With the passage of time and the development of new techniques, the industry has changed so that today’s fame lies, not so much in wall tapestries, as in fine rugs made of cotton, wool, jute and cocoanut matting. Since the war, woolen rugs have supplanted those made of cotton as a leading export. Great Britain remains the largest buyer of Belgium’s rugs and the United States now ranks second.
Although Belgium is essentially an industrial country, agriculture still plays an important part in its economic life. About 17% of all Belgians keep to' the soil, contributing one-sixth of the national income. Over 90% of production is consumed at home and considerable quantities of supplementary food must be imported. Practically all soil not claimed by urban industrial activity, the needs of defense or lines of communication is under cultivation, usually in units of less than three acres. Strips of land have been reclaimed from the sea, entire forests cleared and waste lands made
fertile through river and canal irrigation. Every foot is made to produce its utmost and despite the fact that peasants have been tilling their gardenlike farms for thousands of years the yield per acre is reputed to be among the highest in the world.
The two staple food articles are potatoes and rye, with wheat, barley and oats also grown. Principal industrial crops are sugar beets, flax and tobacco. In areas where the land is unsuitable for tillage, grass is planted and livestock, sheep, pigs, poultry and rabbits are raised. Belgian cattle, horses and hares have achieved world fame. Apart from cereals, which are grown mainly for home consumption, there are certain farm and garden products which are exported on a large scale. Apple, pear, cherry, plum, peach and other fruit orchards cover an area of 180,000 acres with grapes, melons and strawberries raised in hothouses and exported in large quantities. Market gardening has a long history in Belgium with cauliflowers, asparagus, carrots, tomatoes and spinach grown both under glass and in the open for export. White endives or Brussels chicory are a Belgian specialty which are welcomed by many other countries to round out their scanty supplies of winter vegetables. Potatoes, chicory root and tobacco are also exported. About 950 firms including a number of large concerns, are engaged in growing flowers and ornamental shrubs of high quality and variety for export.
Food industries represent nearly 6% of all Belgian industrial production and contribute considerably to the country’s export trade. The manufacturer of beet sugar has become one of the nation’s major industries. By-products of this industry, molasses and beet pulp are also exported in large quantities. About 100 firms produce chocolate
March, 1952
and their total daily output is estimated at eighty-five tons. A biscuit industry is made up of about 30 firms with a daily output of approximately eighty tons which covers wide range of products from dry biscuits and ship’s biscuits to commercially-produced pastries.
About 25,000 tons of vegetables are canned or preserved yearly. Peas account for 70% of this total and the balance consists of asparagus, white endives, sprouts, carrots, spinach, hop shoots and mushrooms. About 40,000 tons of apples and from five to eight thousand tons of other fruit are canned yearly. Other canned goods produced for export by this industry are meat, sardines, sprats (fish) and milk products. Flour milling is concentrated around Antwerp, the world’s leading cereal port. Starch, glucose, macaroni, malted milk, rice and maize products are sold abroad. Beer, spirits and mineral waters are also exported by the beverage industry.
NETHERLANDS
As Holland is densely populated Dutch agriculture together with the industries based upon it are faced with the task of feeding the population with the produce from limited farmlands. Yet, by intensive management, the yield and quality have been raised to such a high level that a large surplus of many products has become available for export and agricultural exports far exceed imports of agricultural equipment and foodstuffs. The steady expansion of towns, and the rapid growth of the population have made it necessary to turn as large an area as possible into arable land. This has been done partly by drainage (an example of this is the draining of the Zuider Zee in which some 170,000 acres already have been reclaimed and 380,000 acres more will follow) and partly by putting higher, sandy grounds and exhausted peat-moor under cultivation. The Government provides considerable aid in the form of information, education and research which the Dutch farmer readily uses.
Holland is one of the largest users of fertilizers per acre in the world. Dutch agriculture produces not only animal feed but also a great variety of field produce.
In addition to the growing of cereals, legumes, sugar beets, potatoes, flax, oil seeds and caraway an intensive cultivation of crops for sowing purposes has been developed. The greater part of these latter crops are exported. The yield per acre is very large, and the products are renowned for their quality. Large quantities of seed, seedlings, saplings and other nursery plants find ready markets all over the world and are exported in great quantities. Tomatoes, grapes, cucumbers, lettuce and cauliflower are the main crops grown in hothouses but many other kinds of vegetables and fruits are grown the same way.
Many kinds of vegetables and fruits are also grown outdoors. These products are sold by auction in large halls where buyers meet and growers bring their produce. The country’s production of flower bulbs is tremendous and these together with flowers and plants grown in hothouses are sold all over the world. Selected seeds, ornamental trees and shrubs are also exported.
Black Star
EMBROIDERY is an important industry in Brussels, and this includes handsome bead bags such as those shown in this photo. They were made at Lier, the town of bead bags.