Pan Am frrcan
s	World	Teacher	March, 1952
States plays in these days. Both have had no cause to regret that hospitality.
Dutch and Belgians are serious-minded, reliable people. They are hard-working folk though always ready to give a little of their time to welcome you.
Their cities are models of elegance, their hotels offer the latest in modern convenience, their food competes favorably with the best of Europe. To look at a Belgian menu is enough to arouse your appetite. Even the names of some of their dishes are inviting—fricadelles Bruxel-loiscs (small thin braised steaks garnished with braised endives) ; Jambon d’Ardenne (smoked ham) ; poisson a I’escaveche (pickeled fish, fried in oil and served cold with jelly) ; oie a I’instar de Vise (goose, Vise style) ; boudins blans aux raisins (white sausages with grapes) ; ecrevisses (crawfish) ; lapin aux pruneaux (rabbit with prunes). A Dutch menu would be just as interesting—rolpens (minced beef, usually served with fried apples) ; poffertjes (small salted fritters) ; smoked eels, oysters, mussels, lobster, etc.
The Benelux countries make every effort to please you. In 1951 Belgium put into effect a rebate plan. The plan applied in seaside resorts and certain near-by cities to foreign guests staying a minimum of seven consecutive days before July 11 or after August 26. The rebate was $4 on the hotel bill (board and lodging) for seven days, and so on. In addition the guests were entitled to a reduction of 5 per cent on articles bought in stores associated with the plan. In Holland, Americans are valued guests. In that country you can still get a hotel room and breakfast for $2. The same welcome is accorded to Americans in Luxembourg.
Words can never substitute the actual trip. The choice is yours and Pan American World Airways is ready to fly you there.
INDUSTRY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Benelux is a word appearing frequently in discussions of world affairs. Specifically, its origin is found in the first two or three letters of the names of BElgium, the NEtherlands and Luxembourg who have decided to develop an economic union in the interest of the welfare of their people.
In such an economic union the movement of people, goods and capital between the Benelux Countries would no longer be subject to any restrictions and the three countries would act as one on everything except national matters.
Historically, Benelux is regarded as an experiment in economic cooperation which can affect the fate not only of the three countries concerned, but through them, the fate of Western Europe as well. If the experiment is successful, it will prove that voluntary union on an economic basis can be beneficially combined with national individuality.
The idea for the Benelux Union was conceived while the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg Governments were in exile in London during World War II. Throughout this period they worked together very closely and in the course of their numerous joint discussions it was gradually realized that after liberation, the closest possible economic cooperation between them was essential for the restoration of prosperity after the war. However, complete liberation and rehabilitation activities in the three countries varied considerably and it became necessary to approach an economic union by stages.
Three Councils were formed and intrusted with the attainment of this goal. An Administrative Council for customs regulations was given the task of preparing a unified tariff*; a Council for Trade
Black Star
GRAND DUCHESS of Luxembourg works at a desk in one of the salons in her castle. Luxembourg is a grand duchy, with a Chamber of Deputies, and with a Minister of State and a cabinet of at least three members.
Agreements was charged with the coordination of the commercial foreign policies of the three countries; and a Council of Economic Union was intrusted with the coordination of economic, financial and social policies of the three countries to insure that the union would not be accompanied by great shocks to domestic economies.
As Belgium and Luxembourg have had a common tariff (and monetary system) since 1922 the first step has been the drafting of a common tariff between them and the Netherlands. This has not been an easy task as each commodity has to be decided upon individually. The job is still going on as sectional interests clash frequently. For example, Belgian farmers are afraid of competition from highly organized Dutch agriculturalists and Antwerp port authorities feel that Rotterdam facilities will be in greater demand because of the latter’s easier access to the Rhine. A draft of the pact for full economic union is also being considered.
Although economically, industrial Belgium and agricultural Holland differ greatly, historically they have much in common. Before gaining independence during the first half of the Nineteenth Century, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg were, at various times, under the domination of Spain, Austria and France. In fact Belgium and the Netherlands were once one nation. Geographically located in the heart of Western Europe they have been among the first to suffer in any outbreak of war on that continent. Strategically, they are closely bound to each other and to Western Europe by all modes of transportation.
Situated on the North Sea, the most navigated sea in the world, and on the mouths of the Great Western European rivers, the Scheldt, the Meuse and the Rhine, Benelux possesses the two largest ports on the European Continent, Rotterdam and Antwerp, as well as the important ports of Amsterdam and Ghent. Their hinterland comprises Eastern France and the Saar, the Ruhr and Western Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Czechoslovakia. Benelux has the fourth largest merchant marine in the world (coming after the United States, the United Kingdom and Norway), the largest Rhine fleet and an inland fleet of six million tons. They have a highly developed railway system and a dense network of roads with a comprehensive truck transport system. Their principal cities are served by Pan American World Airways and other airlines from all over the world as well as by the national airlines of Belgium and the Netherlands.
Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg are small countries. Belgium’s eight million people occupy an area of 11,775 square miles, scarcely larger than the state 0 of Maryland; the Netherlands’ ten million -population live in an area of 15,764 square miles which is equal to about half the area of South Carolina; and Luxembourg’s 295,000 people live in only 999 square miles which makes our smallest state of Rhode Island with its 1,248 square miles seem