Pan Amer f ca/V
March, 1952	World Airways Teacher	5
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
^ On this trip to the Benelux countries, we 'rslhall travel on the Rainbow Clipper Tourist Service.
Although this service—to be started on May 1—is not in operation as this account of it is written, it will be a fact when this study unit is in use. So the account of it will be written from imagination, just as classes will fly to the Benelux countries in imagination when using the unit.
Not so much imagination is needed to describe the tourist service, at that. The operation of the plane, the servicing on the ground, the weather reporting, the radio service, in short, all things having to do with the efficiency and safety of the flight to Europe, are exactly the same as they are for the “President” flight, on which the fare is over two hundred dollars more.
the cabin close together, and the others spaced apart and locked in place, so that we have just as much knee room, and maybe more, as the passengers who departed just an hour or so ahead of us on the “President” flight, and paid $225 more for the trip than we did. Of course, we don’t get orchids, or a seven course dinner, but we are getting a break on the budget side.
Our flight companions are teachers, students, druggists and grocers, policemen and firemen, and there also are doctors and business men, and perhaps even stockbrokers and financiers. Whoever they are, they are people who prefer to use the tourist service because of the saving.
In another unit in World Airways Teacher (Scandinavia) the trip to Europe was described and reference to that unit is suggested if it is available, as this trip is much the same.
Our Rainbow Clipper Tourist takes us to London (see map on page four) and on to either Brussels (Bruxelles) or Amsterdam. For Luxembourg, we have to travel by connecting carrier, most likely by automobile.
Looking at the map again, you may see that we could choose other routes, if we want stopovers at other places. However, not all of these routes offer the tourist type of service at this time.
In using this unit, which was prepared just at the time that tourist service to Europe was being made ready for inauguration, it might be well to bear in mind that in the next few years members of classes who study geography and social studies through such units as this will be traveling to the Benelux countries by air in person •—or to England or France, or to Australia or Japan, or to almost any place in the world which may come to mind. G.G.
Nor is tourist type service anything brand new. It has been in existence on the route from New York to San Juan, Puerto Rico since 1948. There are tourist services in the United States on the cross-country routes between the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts— from New York to Florida, from Los Angeles to Seattle, and elsewhere. The differences between deluxe scheduled air line flights and the scheduled air line tourist flights are two: (1) Fewer luxuries are provided on the tourist services, and (2) more seats are installed on the tourist type airplanes, so that more people go aboard, and it is possible to charge each one a lower fare.
On the tourist service to Europe we depart from the great Idlewild Airport in New York City on the Douglas DC-6-B, an airplane of the latest design, brand new, and ordered by the air line especially for this new Rainbow service.
Going aboard, we find that there is not a full passenger load on this particular flight. There are some empty seats. And there is something new in air line operation. The seats are mounted on tracks, a little like railroad tracks. Those which are not to be used are pushed up to the forward part of
Black Star
DAIRY FARMING is important to the economy of Holland. The two young parti cipants shown here will grow to play their parts in their country’s dairy industry.
Brussels Smiles
Though having its own personality, any city of Belgium might be considered as typical of the country. Brussels, the capital, embodies the spirit of Belgium. Antwerp (which in Flemish is hand werpen and means thrown hand) is the city of merchants and diamond traders with magnificent fortunes where art and thought have always flourished. Ghent has its celebrated churches and castles, and Louvain its university of renown. Liege, is the industrial and artistic center.
THE BENELUX COUNTRIES
By Enrique Portes
The European Powers which defeated Napoleon at Waterloo united Belgium and Holland at Vienna in 1815 into a single kingdom: the Low Countries, under the rule of a prince of Orange. The young state had everything. The north, with its merchant fleet, its colonies, its business ability, was the complement of the agricultural and industrial south. The basic law guaranteed freedom in every respect. The world looked with affection at this union. Yet Belgians and Dutch thought differently. In 1830 Belgium proclaimed its independence.
In spite of many historic, economic and political ties, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg remained apart. It took a new world war to encourage the old feeling of close ties, and the word BENELUX was coined to embody a new concept. On September 5, 1944, a London broadcast announced, among other items of great interest, that “the Governments of Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had con-
cluded a Customs Agreement.” This Agreement was to come into force as soon as the three countries had been liberated. (The Benelux economic union is explained in greater detail in the section “Industry and Trade.”)
Belgium as ever
Issues affecting all Europe have often been disputed on the soil of Belgium. The little country has witnessed the clash of empires, religions and regimes at one time or another. Almost every Belgian province has its battlefield of renown, every old castle its heroic legend. Traveling through Belgium is like reading a history book of Europe, the pages of which contain the record of man’s struggle for freedom. Because it has so often been wounded, oppressed and bruised Belgium has placed against the background of her landscape the memories of her past: the belfries recalling her struggles; the churches, the spirit of her faith; the castles, the sentinels of her splendor.
Is Belgium a country of the past? Far from it. It is healthy, hard-working, eternally young. Bound to her by a thousand sentimental reasons, Luxembourg is by the side of Belgium like a brother.
Belgium is the birthplace of Charlemagne and Charles V of Spain, the place where Van Eyck, Memling and Rubens painted and Maeterlinck wrote. It is the country of the lace-workers and bell-ringers, of spinning-wheels and gardens, of fanfares and processions. Many a time the fate of our western world has been decided in Belgium.