Page 6
Pam Amektca/v
World Alrways Teacher
the words of Christ spoken to St. Peter — “Thou art Peter and upon this rock I will build my Church”.
In the Sistine Chapel, within Vatican City, are Michelangelo’s famous paintings of the Creation, the fall of man, the deluge, and the last judgment, and also murals by Perugino and Botticelli. The Vatican contains one of the world’s greatest art and archaeological collections and libraries.
There are so many things to see in Rome — the Farnese Palace and the Farnecina, the National, Capitolino and Torlonia museums, the Borghesi Gallery — and 500 churches five of which are masterpieces of architectural beauty. The Pantheon is the best preserved of all the Imperial Roman buildings. Built in 27 B.C. as a pagan temple, it was consecrated later as a Christian church. Raphael, the famous painter, with other great Italians, is buried there. The statue of Moses by Michelangelo in the Church of San Pietro in Vinculi is one of the most powerful figures ever carved in marble. Finishing his masterpiece, Michelangelo is said to have stood before it and struck it with his mallet, demanding “speak”. The mark of the mallet blow can still be seen on the knee of Moses.
The old Appian way — the ancient road to Rome — bordered with cypresses and dotted with ruined tombs and towers, still reminds the visitor of the Christian persecutions by Nero. There is a little Church of “Dornine Quo Vadis” which marks the locality where St. Peter had the apparition of Christ. That road leads to the Catacombs which are visited by practically every one who goes to Rome.
Before saying “Good-bye” to Rome no one fails to go to the Pincian Hills which commands one of the finest views of the city. There is Rome, with all its grandeur and beauty — there is the City forever Eternal.
Arivederci
Arivederci is not good-bye for ever. One must return to Italy many times to see every one of its great and small cities. There is Genoa, situated on the Italian Riviera, surrounded by ancient walls and forts, birthplace of the great navigator and discoverer — Columbus — and of Mazzini, the patriot, and of Paganini, the violinist. There is Naples, dominated by the Vesuvius volcanoe, and near the fabulous Pompei ruins, and Sorrento and Capri. In short, many and many places endowed each one with a variety of charm of its own.
And you will not forget the delicious Italian food. Its fame lies in the diversity of provincial dishes. Each region, even each town, has its specialties and preparation secrets: alia romana, alia fiorentina, alia bologtiese, alia veneziana, etc. Let’s take Milan, for instance. The triumph of Milanese gastronomy is the risotto. Edouard de Pomiane, master of the arts, writes about this marvel: “They bring you a preparation which, at nightfall, seems to be composed of grains of gold. A soft aroma of saffron intoxicates you little by little and you feel satisfied by just looking at this rice dish with the grains well separated and golden. The cataclysm, produced by your fork, mixes rice and cheese, the snow and the grains of gold. You begin to
eat, and you experience a feeling unknown to a Frenchman.” So writes this famous Frenchman.
In Rome, the ghiottoni (gourmets) know where to find tasty things — their peccorino or the saltimbocca alia romana in which a leaf of fresh sage gives a surprising flavor to the veal and, of course, the fettuccine. In Venice the lobster assume a unique position in the gourmet’s table. Among meat dishes, the fegato alia veneziana (liver, Venetian style) has no equal for its delicacy. In Florence the visitor faces a difficult task: what to choose either a slice of arista
Extending into the blue Mediterranean Sea in the shape of a gigantic boot covering 119,744 square miles is the peninsula of Italy. Its turbulent history runs from the time of ancient man through the reign of the Caesars and the Glory that was Rome; the highly developed local governments of Medieval Republics; Renaissance princely states; absolute monarchies both foreign and domestic; constitutional monarchy; dictatorship; and democratic republicism. Although the Peninsula’s history dates back more than 2,500 years (surpassed in time only by that of Greece in Europe), Italy’s history as a modern state dates back only to 1860. In that year a liberal monarchy under the House of Savoy unified the many privately ruled regions of the country and during the latter part of the Nineteenth Century Parliament began to lay the groundwork for a modern state in which elected representatives of the people could take the responsibility of government.
PISA — The leaning tower of Pisa is the campanile (bell tower) of the cathedral. Construction of the tower was begun in the year 1174. It is 179 feet tall; the walls, at the base, are 13 feet thick. It probably was not intended to lean — rather, the supposition is that the tower settled during construction. It is more than 16 feet away from perpendicular, and the degree of leaning has increased by about a foot during the last century.
(breast of pork), a polio alia diavolo (chicken) split in two, or a bistecca alia fiorentina (veal cutlet) and then finish up with a slice of panforte, a cake made with hazel nuts, almonds, walnuts, honey, and preserved fruit. If you add to all this a glass of Chianti, what else is to be desired?
Veni, vidi, vici, Julius Caesar’s curt report of a victory, sent to the Roman Senate, might be your own report to your friends after your return from Italy. Today, it is easy to get there — only a few hours from the United States.
During World War I Italy fought on the side of the Western Allies. The end of the war however, found the country’s financial resources depleted and its government divided over the manner in which postwar problems could be solved. In 1922 an extreme Fascist party, promising the reestablishment of law and order, w7as swept into office, and held power until 1943. During World War II, the dictatorship declared war against the Western Allies, an action which eventually broke its hold over Italy as the war, highly unpopular from its first day, caused discontent among both the military and the Fascist leadership itself. In 1943 a free Italian Republic was formed in the south under Marshall Pietro Badoglio who signed an armistice with the Western Allies. However, the German Army, which at that time occupied key positions throughout the country, established rule over most of Italy through a new puppet state in the north of the country. In October 1943, Free Italy declared war on Germany and was recognized by the Allies as a co-belligerent. Regular Italian Armed Forces and, to an even greater extent, partisans operating behind enemy lines, helped the advancing Allies to free Italy after twenty months of bitter fighting. Liberation was completed on April 25, 1945 and the Dictator, Mussolini, was executed three days later. Today Italy is a Republic with a Constitution promoting and protecting the full dignity and development of the individual.
Products and Trade
Wheat is the leading grain crop with corn, barley, oats, rye and rice also grown. The country’s most valuable agricultural products however are fruits, particularly the olive, which is one of the chief articles of export. Oranges, lemons and almonds are raised extensively in the southern regions. One of the country’s outstanding products is silk which comes from the north. Dairy farming and the raising of livestock are becoming increasingly important but are restricted because of the scarcity of suitable grazing lands.
One of Italy’s greatest handicaps is the lack of mineral resources. There is little coal and much of the country’s fuel has to be imported. Deposits of iron ore are small. Zinc is found on the island of Sardinia and in northern regions and there are also small deposits of lead, gold, silver,
ITALY’S ECONOMY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips