Pam Mfktcæn
World Airways Teacher
Page 5
ROME — The Colosseum was the scene of bloody battles between gladiators and beasts, and between gladiators. It could be flooded so that the engagements could include naval battles.
Rubens, Van Dyck and others are presented to all who want to enjoy man’s divine inspiration.
In the Accademia Michelangelo reaches his full glory with his David, supreme example of his genius.
Then, when night has fallen and you take a ride to a near by hill and reach Piazza Michelangelo, you can see Florence, serene and splendid, spreading its arms across the valley which gently touches the almost exhausted Arno. Ponte Vecchio lies there indifferent to the passing of the centuries. Florence is a jewel of a city.
Rome — The Eternal
Rome is probably the most inexhaustible of cities, and no one with less than three thousands years at his disposal can hope to see it all. The Caesars, the might of their far flung empire and the bravery of their warriors, the early Christian apostles and martyrs round whose memory ring those famous words “Thou art Peter and on this rock I will build my Church”.
The atmosphere of modern Rome, though abounding in new buildings, still rests on the lovely ruins scattered throughout the city. These ruins are surprisingly few in number and in extent, yet from them springs the whole character and spirit of the city. Not much remains of the medieval Roman fortifications, with their fortresses and observation posts — save a few half ruined towers such as the Milizie, Castel Sant’ Angelo, and some square campaniles of the romanesque period.
The Rome which we associate with grandeur rather than opulence grew up between the fifteenth and eighteenth centuries when artists and architects, cardinals and popes conceived and built great monuments. If Michelangelo quality is undisputed, one must add another artist who worked for the glory of Rome — Bernini. The sumptuousness of the 17th century, the baroque façades, the statues and fountains are the characteristic features of Rome. No one can resist the charm of its many fountains, the music of running or falling water. You can see or hear it all over Rome: along the aqueducts built by the Emperors and restored by the Popes, the waters of the river encircling the central part of the town, water falling in cascades of murmuring streams, in piazzas, under the walls of palaces, creeping under the stones of the Forum.
As in ancient times, the larger section of Rome lies on the left bank of the Tiber which intercepts the city in three curves and is spanned by 19 bridges. In the left-bank section one may use the Piazza Venezia, a central square, as a convenient point of departure. It lies at the foot of the old Capitol and borders on the huge monument of King Victor Emmanuel II. A broad avenue, the Via dei Fori Imperiali, runs from Piazza Venezia to the Colosseum. Leaving the Emperors’ Fora one can see at a distance the Church of St. Peter in Chains (San Pietro in Vincoli) to the left, and the Capitol, and the Capitol and the ancient Forum to the right. From the Colosseum, the Via di San Gregorio continues south past the Arch of Constantine and the Bath of Caracalla to the Appian Way.
The central part of Rome is cut by a
thoroughfare called Via Nazionale. To the east of the Via del Corso, the fashionable Via Condotti leads to the Piazza di Spagna; a flight of 132 steps ascends from that square — once Keats and Shelley had their residence here — to the church of Santa Trinita dei Monti and the Villa Medici.
In Rome one must walk a little to see the city fairly well. Let’s suppose you take a stroll along Via Porta Pinciana to the lovely church of the Holy Trinity of the Hills and descend the famous old white stone Spanish steps to the Piazza di Spagna and into Via Condotti, then you’ll find yourself in one of the finest shopping streets in Rome. Later on you may go from Via Condotti straight for the Tiber, along the Via Tomacelli, cross the river on Ponte Cavour, walk along the river side, pass the Palace of Justice, and you are at the turreted Castel Sant’ Angelo.
This Castle has been at different times tomb of the Emperor Hadrian, private fortress of the Popes during the Middle Ages and today one of Rome’s most visited places.
Coming out of Castel Sant’ Angelo, to the right, you will see one of the great sights of Christendom, St. Peter’s Cathedral and Vatican City dominating the heights at the end of the broad Via della Conciliazone. In the center of the Piazza there is a huge obelisk brought from Egypt. Inside St. Peter’s itself, one is struck by the size of the Cathedral, the largest ever designed by an architect who wanted to convey some idea of the immensity of God by the vastness of the Cathedral. Under a great canopy at the upper end of the Church, under the forty-story high dome, is the tomb of St. Peter. Around the base of the dome, in golden letters six feet high are
ROME — The foundation walls in the arena of the Colosseum were for structures which were built in a period later than that of the gladiators. Originally the arena floor was clear and flat.