Pa/v American
Page 12____________________WORLD AfRWAYS
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
THE ITALIAN PENINSULA, II min., color, sd. Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago, 111.
Presents a comprehensive picture of geographical features of Italy and their effect on agriculture and living patterns as shown in the lives of a silk-factory worker in Milan, a rice-farmer in the Po Valley, a high-scliool student in Rome, and a citrus-fruit grower near Naples. There are scenes of Naples, Rome, Milan and the Po Valley. ITALY: PENINSULA OF CONTRASTS, 18 min., sound, color, Encyclopedia Bri-tannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111. Depicts the physical geography of Italy and illustrates ways in which it influences the lives of the people. It contrasts old-fashioned and up-to-date methods of farming and transportation; portrays ancient and modern aspects of Italian cities; and highlights the importance of tourist trade to the people of Italy.
POMPEII AND VESUVIUS, 11 min., sound, color, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Reveals an actual eruption of Mt. Vesuvius and the ruins of the city of Pompeii. The film recalls the eruption of 79 A.D. and depicts the current scene in Pompeii and environs. Activities of present-day Naples and a colorful folk dance in Sorrento provide authentic glimpses of the life that is carried on within the very shadow of the still active and ominous mountain.
ART AND LIFE IN ITALY, 10 min., sd. black and white, Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago, 111.
Representative Middle Age and Renaissance art produced in Italy; reasons for creative activity of Italian people in past as well as present.
ITALIAN CHILDREN-HARVEST TIME IN UMBRIA, 11 min., sd. black and white, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
Features of home environment such as their house, garden, and food, and how children participate in the farm work— particularly in the picking and processing of olives. Role of family festivities and musical enjoyment in the lives of Italian children; market day activities in the historic city of Assisi.
PO RIVER VALLEY (Italy), 20 min., sd., black and white, United World, Educational Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York 29, N. Y. Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates. One of the “Earth and its People” Series. Development of large cities and industries near cheap electric power and skilled labor. Daily life in farming villages. VENICE-QUEEN CITY OF THE ADRIATIC, 11 min., sd., color., Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111. Photography, animated maps and drawings combine to portray the distinctive features of this city “built on islands.” Modern Venice is made understandable in terms
of the city’s origin, its rise to power and wealth through trade, its decline with the coming of new trade routes, and its survival as a thriving and impressive city through adaptation to new conditions.
THE LION, THE GRIFFIN AND THE KANGAROO, 14 min., sd., black and white, Kinesis Inc., 54 West 47th St., New York 36, N. Y.
Portrays the development of art, culture and tradition in Perugia from Etruscan times to the present. Scenes in the cathedral of rehearsals for Perugia’s annual festival of church music are shown.
BREAD AND WINE, 16 min., sd., black and white, Julien Bryan, International Film Foundation, 345 East 46th St., New York, N. Y.
The routine daily life of the farmer including an evening meal is shown, as well as the harvest of the grapes, the making of bread, and the cultivation of the crops. CITY THAT LIVES, 17 min., scl, black and white, Hoffberg Productions Inc., 36 W. 44th Street, New York 18, N. Y. Depicts the paintings, sculpture and architectural masterpieces in Florence, the works of Michaelangelo, Cellini, Rafael, and others.
SONG OF ITALY, 90 min., sd., cqlor, Cinematravel Productions, 3965 West 6th St., Hollywood 5, Cal.
Produced by Jack Shandler, narrated by Curtis Nagel, this film takes us on a tour through Italy and shows us the major cities and scenic beauties. The history, architecture and folksongs of the people are included.
VENICE, 12 min., sd., black and white, Young America Films, Inc., 18 East 41st St., New York, N. Y.
The importance of the gondola and water transportation to the life in Venice is shown. Extensive views of the city and of the life of the people.
FLORENCE, 16 min., sd., black and white, Fleetwood Films Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Produced by the British Foundation Pictures.
An insight to the first city of Tuscani, world famous art center. Included is a visit to the straw market and the workshops of hand craft artists who have made the Florentine trademark so famous — silversmiths, inlaid leather workers and mosaic workers. ITALIAN VISTA, 17 min., sd., black and white, Fleetwood Films Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Produced by the British Foundation Pictures.
A study of the people in the south of Italy beginning with the skilled artisans of Naples. The southern Italian cities, towns and villages proclaim the country’s evergrowing problem “Over Population.” The tour includes visits to fishing villages and citrus groves.
THE LAGOON, 16 min., sd., black and white, Fleetwood Films Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Produced by the British Foundation Pictures.
We sightsee Venice, and study the pro-
duction of fine hand made lace, an old and traditional craft. A climax of the visit is to the world famous glass works on the Island Murano where we witness an exhibition of glass blowing by a young mai who is considered the greatest artist since Michaelangelo.
Filmstrips
ITALY TO-DAY, 30 frames, si., b. & w., Visual Education Consultants, Inc., 2086 Helena St., Madison 4, Wisconsin.
Gives a survey of Italy’s geographic, political, economic, and cultural position in the world today, and covers most important cities. Captioned photographs and maps describe customs and aspects of everyday life, in both work and play. Discusses Italy’s historical background, contrasting the past with the present; and points the general directions of Italy’s future aims. ITALY, 54 frames, si., with color, Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., 11213 Central Ave., Wilmette, Chicago, 111. Photographs of the farming land along the Po, of manufacturing centers such as Turin, and of ancient monuments in Rome, Pompeii, Vatican City and other cities of Italy.
ITALY, 44 frames, si. with captions, color, McGraw-Hill Book Co., Text-Film Dept., 330 W. 42nd St., New York 18, N. Y. Produced by Popular Science Audio-Visual Dept, as one of the “Visits to European Lands” series.
Scenes of ports and other cities, industries, farming and historical buildings. ITALY, 29 frames, si. with captions, b. &: w., Young America Films, Inc., 18 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y.
This filmstrip, one of the “Families of the World” scries, presents a photographic story of a farm family near Florence, into which are woven the basic themes common to the daily life of all mankind.
ITALY, THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE, 42 frames, si. with captions, color, Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1345 W. Diver -sey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Shows customs, activities and interests of the people as well as architecture, characteristic landscapes, and industries. Maps show location of cities, physical features, and comparison wfith other countries. JANET VISITS ITALY, 25 frames, si. with captions, color, Curriculum Films Inc., 10 E. 40th St., New York, N. Y.
Janet and Mary see old castles, a fishing village, hill farms and farmers hard at work, and the cities of Pisa, Florence, and Venice.
PAOLO’S BIRTHDAY RIDE, 41 frames, si. with captions, color, Young America Films, Inc., 18 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y. A story of Paolo Salla who lives in Naples and his motor-scooter ride out in the country on his twelfth birthday.
RENAISSANCE VENICE, 49 frames, si. with captions, color, Life Magazine Inc., Filmstrip Div., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. also S.V.E., 1345 W. Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111.
To portray civilization in the Venetian Republic at the time of the 18th Century, the canvasses of the great Venetian painters of that period have been selected to describe the physical appearance of the city and also its government, religion and trade.