Pah Amtrtcah
World Airways Teacher
Page T-3
THE UNIVERSAL PDSTAL UNION
by Ernest A. Kehr
Stamp News Editor, New York Herald Tribüne
The next time you mail a letter that will speed by Clipper from the United States to Austria or Australia; to Hongkong or Hawaii; to Brazil or Burma, stop a moment. Ask yourself, “How does it get there? Who pays for its delivery to an address in some far away place with a strange sounding name?”
Before 1875, the dispatch of mail from one country to another was a complex, complicated chore. If you addressed an envelope to Germany, for instance, the postal clerk would have to consult charts to calculate just how much postage you’d have to put on it.
There was one fee to send it from your home town to the nearest Atlantic seaport; another to ship it across the ocean; still another to get it from the European port to the German border, and a fourth to assure delivery from the border to its inland destination.
Every country in the world had individual postal rates; individual treaties with every other nation. And, depending on what they were, citizens were subjected to considerable confusion. It might, for instance, cost 24 cents to mail a letter to Switzerland; 30 cents, to Spain. In some cases, where there were no treaties you’d have to send mail by some round about route that I was costly and slow.
But all that was changed when the Universal Postal Union went into operation eighty-one years ago.
Today the world’s mail moves twenty-four hours a day; 365 days a year, with a quiet efficiency that is nothing short of amazing. It is shipped across and over oceans, continents and borders regardless of political tensions, wars and natural disasters.
It really all began in 1863, when Abraham Lincoln’s Postmaster General Montgomery Blair communicated with a dozen nations abroad, asking them to meet him in Paris and discuss the possibilities of eliminating all this bothersome international red tape.
The meeting was held, but because of the Civil War at home and political unrest on the continent, definite considerations had to be postponed. Then as peace was restored here, the Franco-Prussian War in Europe delayed further action.
Finally, in May, 1874, Dr. Heinrich von Stephan, the enlightened German postal reformer (incidently he invented the postal card and organized the first postal museum), urged that the world get together. A conference was called and delegates from twenty different nations met in Bern, Switzerland.
By October, those twenty nations had come to mutually satisfactory conclusions and were ready to approve and accept the original plans of operation.
The operation of the U.P.U., as the Universal Postal Union is popularly known, is so simple that you might have planned it yourself.
First of all, every charter member agreed that it would charge a single standard rate for the transportation of a foreign letter, based on the French gold franc. In the United States, that was five cents; in Germany, 20 pfennig; in France, 24 centimes, in England, 2y2 pence, and so on.
Secondly, for postal purposes, the territories of all member nations would be considered as a single, borderless area. Every member would have the right to use the transportation facilities of any or all other members to move mail from one place to another.
Thirdly, it was agreed that the country in which a letter was mailed would keep the entire amount paid for postage and that the country of destination would deliver a properly stamped letter without cost.
This provision was based on the reasonable assumption that every letter calls for a reply: that if a Swiss mailed a letter to a friend in Wisconsin, the friend would send an answer.
Only nations that handled “in transit” mails could charge the dispatching country a fee for its share in mail transportation. For instance, France might charge the Swiss government for transporting that letter from the Swiss border across France and the ocean aboard French trains and ship, to the United States.
Of course this provision still applies to surface mail now, but it has been largely eliminated by air transport, which makes it possible to send air-mail directly from one country to another. The dispatching nation now pays its carrier a stipulated rate.
It’s as simple as that!
The U.P.U. went into operation on Jan. 1, 1875. Its success was assured almost from the outset, and pretty soon other countries began applying for membership.
They joined one by one and by 1900, the U.P.U. was truly universal. Today just about every country on our globe either is a full member or is represented by another government in the union. When Pakistan
was formed in 1947, it had to be represented by Great Britain, because its membership application could not be approved until the next U.P.U. Congress, in 1952.
Members of the U.P.U., you see, meet regularly about every five years to adjust slight differences, modify existing rules to bring them up to date, and to transact such other business as may need unanimous consideration. In the interim, all U.P.U. business is handled by a director-general and a small staff headquartered in a brand new building just outside the center of Bern, in Switzerland.
Even Communist China, though not a member, operates its international mail service in accordance with all of the U.P.U. rules, just as if it were a full member. Pos-tally, Red China is hardly important. Though it has a population of some 500,000,000 people, they write fewer letters than such tiny nations as Luxembourg, Liechtenstein or Monaco.
The U.P.U. would be an outstanding organization if we thought of it only as an efficient postal handler.
But it is more than that. It is an example of the kind of international organization which will lead to world understanding, cooperation and peace. In all the eight and a half decades that it has been functioning, neither cold wars nor hot; neither hurricanes nor earthquakes ever stopped the swift transportation of international mails.
While nations with different political convictions blast each other at conference tables, those same nations treat each other with friendly respect at U.P.U. meetings.
U.P.U. members assist each other with phenomenal cooperation and speed when disaster strikes. A few years ago, when the Dominican Republic was devastated by earthquakes and storms, its entire postal service was wrecked. Within ten hours equipment and personnel was Clippered to Ciudad Trujillo from Puerto Rico, Havana and Miami to keep the postal system functioning until the Dominicans could rebuild and re-staff its post-offices.
The U.P.U. has, and constantly is prov ing that when men of goodwill, no matter what their race, color or creed, really WANT to cooperate they can find a way towards mutual understanding and a common advantage.
U.P.U. STAMPS _ The Universal Postal Union has been the subject of many commemorative stamps, of which samples are shown here. At left, on a German stamp, is a portrait of the founder, Dr. Heinrich von Stephan. The Liberian stamp, showing the building in which charter delegates met for the organization meeting in 1874, commemorated the 75th anniversary of U.P.U. At right is a Swiss stamp issued in 1900 to mark the 25th anniversary.