Pan American
Page 4	World Airways Teacher
VENICE — The "streets" of Venice are canals, "taxicabs" are gondolas, as shown in the photograph, and "buses" are motor launches.
9
i
tioned inn, which offers a lovely city vista even during the warmest nights.
Milan, long a musical center, has an excellent conservatory. There are two universities — one State and the other Catholic.
Venice
There is nothing like Venice in the world. Venice is not a city; it is an unlikely and wonderful dream. To protect themselves from the approach of enemies by land, a group of citizens many centuries ago carved for themselves a slice of sea and erected buildings on the top of the waves. This fantastic conglomeration of houses, churches, gardens, squares and streets rests on piles sunk deep into the mud. The main boulevard and many streets are paved with water instead of asphalt. Your taxi is a motor boat or a gondola. Your first contact with Venice will arouse a cry of delight.
As soon as you leave the station, the airport — or your car — you find yourself escorted by a porter who thinks his efforts are worth their weight in gold, for you must take some sort of craft to reach your hotel. And that is the way it is.
Almost immediately after arriving one finds himself in St. Mark’s Square. It is like an immense outdoor drawing room, enclosed on three sides by arcades, on the fourth by the Basilica in Byzantine style, built in the 9th century to house the body of the Saint, and the Palace of the Doges. The Palace is one of Europe’s most picturesque buildings, as it embodies both the Renaissance and the Gothic styles of architecture, and it is connected with the ancient prison by the famous Bridge of Sighs. The Campanile, after the collapse of the old one, was rebuilt in 1902.
The city is connected with the mainland — 2V4 miles away — by a railroad bridge and a highway bridge. Between the islands run 160 canals, mostly very narrow, crossed by hundreds of little bridges. The Grand Canal, shaped like a reversed S, is the main traffic artery; its chief bridge is the Rialto (mentioned in The Merchant of Venice),
named after the island which was the historical nucleus of Venice. The influence of the Orient, particularly by Byzantium, which characterizes Venitian art and architecture, is most clearly expressed in St. Mark’s Church.
The Renaissance marked the height of Venetian artistic glory. Architects such as the Lombardy family, Jacopo Sansovino, and l’alladis, and the Venetian school of painting which besides its giants — Titian and Tintoretto — also includes Giovanni Bellini, Giorgione, Jacopo Palma, and Veronese, gave Venice its present aspect of a city of churches and palaces floating on water, blazing with color and light and filled with treasures of art.
Venice has always been famous for its freedom of expression in every field. Are-tino, the “scourge of kings”, chose Venice as his residence. Although Goldoni, the dramatist, and painters such as Tiepolo and Canaletto still made Venice the most original artistic city of the XVIII century in Italy, they represented to some extent the decadence that accompanied the city’s commercial and military decline. In 1797, Bonaparte delivered Venice to Austria in the Treaty of Campo Formio. Thus, Venice fell. In 1866, Venice United with the Kingdom of Italy.
The center of the city is St. Mark’s Square, and the Piazzetta which leads from the square to the sea. There one sees thousands of visitors strolling lazily under the bright sun. There are the famous Basilica, the Gothic Palace of the doges, the Pro-curatie, the Campanile, the Moors’ Clock tower, the twin columns supporting the statues of St. Therore stepping on a crocodile and of a winged lion of St. Mark (the emblem of Venice). On the islands facing the Piazzeta are the baroque churches of St. Giorgio Maggiore and Santa Marie della Slute. The beach of Lido di Venezia is near by.
This city of enchantment is where the visitor finds himself transported to a different world. There is music everywhere. The
famous Cafe Florian and many others have no room for one more. And in the evening, when the mosaics shine softly, the palaces and churches seem to be filled with mystery and the visitor becomes a sort of an intruder in this strange atmosphere. Venice has been celebrated by poets, painters, and musicians of all lands — and rightly so.
Florence
Florence is the jewel of the Italian Renaissance. In the XV Century it became the golden city with an almost incredible flowering of intellectual and artistic life — the soul of the Renaissance. Yet Florence had been through the most turbulent history. At the foot of the Apeninnes, on the Arno River, Florence was a town of the Roman Empire. In the Middle Ages it gained autonomy in 1200, and Guelphs and Ghibellines fought over it until the Guelphs expelled the Ghibellines, then split into their own warring factions, the Blacks and the Whites, best remembered because Dante, a Florentine, was banished as a White Guelph.
The turbulent city became a city-state in the XV century under Cosimo de Medici, a wealthy and cultured merchant. Lorenzo di Medici — member of that famous family — ruled from 1459 to 1492. Under Lorenzo the Magnifico and his successors for two centuries Florence was the golden city. To Florence belong Michelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael and Donatello. Poets and scholars abounded, and the Accademia della Crusca was established.
On the political side Florence has had its fiery Savonarola who was burnt in 1498 after power over the city briefly, and its Machiavelli a diplomatic representative of the republic. Florence became the capital of the grand duchy of Tuscany when Gosino I di Medici was made grand duke.
It is impossible to mention all the city’s monuments and artistic treasures. Everywhere the visitor can see cupolas, churches and towers and palaces. One walks a block or two and comes upon a cathedral of magnificent design, a museum rich in paintings and sculptures, a chapel filled with masterpieces by Michelangelo and da Vinci. There is Santa Maria dei Fiori and near by the campanile designed by Giotto. There is the Baptistery of St. John with the famous doors by Ghiberti, worthy to be the Doors of Paradise as Michelangelo called them and still bear that name. The bas-reliefs represent scenes from the Bible, among others, the Creation of Man, the Sacrifice of Isaacs, Adam and Eve expelled from the earthy paradise. Not far away one finds the Church of Santa Croce, a national shrine where great men of Italy are buried and honored — Michelangelo, Dante, Machiavelli, Galileo, Rossini.
The Palazzo della Signoria (city hall) has frescos by Vasari. In the Piazza della Signoria, political center of Florence, Savonarola was burned. Near by is the Loggia dei Lanzi, also called dell Orcagna, with many sculptures, among others, the Perseus by Cellini. The Uffizi Gallerie and the Pitti Palace house some of the richest collection of paintings in the world. Masterpieces by Lippi, Raphael, da Vinci, Michelangelo, Andrea del Sarto, Titian, Tintoretto,