Page T-4
PAN /UlkHfCAN
World Airways Teacher
JET-POWERED CLIPPERS-Continued present contract are designed to utilize jet engines of even greater power and versatility as and when they become available for commercial use. These engines will make the DC-8 the most advanced jet transport now in production.
Announcement that Douglas was ready for the jet market was made by Douglas in June 1955 although it was generally known that development work on this model had been in progress for several years.
First public discussion of the details of the DC-8s performance characteristics and operating economy was by Ivar L. Shogran DC-8 chief project engineer before the Institute of Aeornautical Sciences Turbine Power Symposium in Seattle last August.
On that occasion Shogran said the DC-8 equipped with the J-57 engines would be a multi-purpose airplane capable of economic operation at both long and medium ranges. Additional studies subsequently determined that the same airplane would be capable of utilizing larger and more powerful engines to attain even better performance.
A quarter of a century of experience in production of passenger-carrying air transports and 35 years of aviation manufacturing know-how have been incorporated into the DC-8, the Douglas announcement pointed out.
Arthur E. Raymond, vice-president-engineering, and Edward F. Burton, chief engineer of the Santa Monica Division, personally supervised the newest development.
The intercontinental model developed in cooperation with Pan American personnel and incorporating features resulting from the airline’s decades of trans-oceanic operating experience will be capable of nonstop operations in either direction between New York and London or Paris against winter headwinds.
The normal cruising speed of Pan American’s DC-8 on long-range flights will be nearly 200 m.p.h. faster than the propeller-driven DC-7C Pan American Clipper airliners scheduled to fly in December and enter PAA service early in 1956.
Pan American’s order for 33 Seven Seas valued at more than $88,000,000, together with 55 DC-6Bs and seven DC-7Bs already in operation, will give the airline a total Douglas fleet costing $348,000,000, the Douglas company’s announcement said.
In East Hartford, Conn., Frederick B. Rentschler, chairman of United Aircraft Corporation and dean of American aircraft engine builders, said that Pan American World Airways’ purchase of 45 Boeing and Douglas jet-powered airliners marked the beginning of a new era in world transportation.
“We have had ten years of speculation on the timing of the jet-transport age,” Mr. Rentschler said. “Today we know in a really concrete way when it will begin.”
Mr. Rentschler and his associates in United Aircraft Corporation and its Pratt & Whitney Aircraft division, which has designed and built the axial-flow jets selected for the new transports, have stead-
ily held since 1945 that jet aircraft would not be developed sufficiently for commercial transportation until the late 1950s. They judged that intensive military development in the gas-turbine field must precede the use of jet-powered transports in civil transportation.
“Now an American team has been fielded for the development and production of large jet-pow7ered air transports capable of transoceanic operation,” Mr. Rentschler said. “This team consists of Pan American, the company which pioneered all of the world’s overseas air routes; Douglas and Boeing, which are names synonymous with long-range, heavy intercontinental transports, and Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, whose Wasp piston engines have been well known on the world’s airways since the 1920s. Pratt & Whitney Aircraft reaffirmed its world leadership in powerplants through the design, development, and first mass production of a jet-turbine powerplant of more than 10,000 pounds of thrust. This engine was proved experimentally in 1950 and since has experienced heavy production
for the U. S. Air Force for both inter continental jet bombers and supersonic fighters.
“It requires more than paper performance and experience for new powerplant^ and airframes to meet the exacting requirt^ ments of commercial transport service. The experience of these past years, gained through heavy production and use for military requirements, has paved the way in this country to make possible safe commercial application of this new art.
“The real beginning of air transportation came only a little more than a generation ago,” Mr. Rentschler said. “It followed five years of concentrated military development of the modern, radial, air-cooled engine. A pattern of sound development that brought America its aviation leadership was established in the early 1930s, which we have never relinquished.
“Even today, few realize that whether you come to the United States from Rome or Paris, London or Copenhagen, Manila or Tokyo, on foreign or U. S. airlines, you fly in American-designed and built airplanes powered by American engines.”
JET CLIPPER TRAVEL TIMES — Introduction of jet-powered Flying Clippers on the air routes of the world will cut travel times to approximately half those required for schedules with present piston engine types.