Page 8
Pan Amerf can
World Airways Teacher
plumed with smoke. Until a hundred years ago Naples was the capital of a powerful Kingdom of Napoli, which included at various times all of southern Italy and Sicily.
Turin
Turin with 750,000 people lies in the Piedmont region. This is a land-locked fertile border area surrounded on the west and north by the high Alps along whose crest runs the boundary of France and Switzerland and on the south of the Apennines Mountains. Royal palaces and feudal castles dot the landscape. In Piedmont lie the richest iron mines of Italy which are also the highest mines in the world. Extraction and transportation to the valley below is made difficult by ice and snow and would hardly be profitable if it were not for the high grade content of ore. The factories of Piedmont rise amid rich agricultural districts. Many wines of repute are bottled from vineyards.
Turin, the industrial center of Northern Italy, was for centuries the capital of the Kingdom of Piedmont. With its circle of snow-capped mountains, geometrical pattern of wide avenues and squares, royal palaces and equestrian monuments to the ancient kings, and the Valentino gardens along the River Po it is one of the most stately cities of Europe. One of the most remarkable buildings in its skyline in the pearshaped Mole Antonelliana, erected in 1860 and the highest masonry building in Europe. Turin is the traditional Italian fashion center, although a lot of fashion designing is now also done in Florence and Rome. Outside of the city lie many factories including the giant FIAT motor works and the Vil-larperosa ball-bearing plant.
Genoa
Genoa, the country’s principal port, is located in the Liguria region, a long narrow area of sea-faring people arched around the Gulf of Genoa and crowded against the coast by the high Apennines. The famous Aurelian Road with its many spectacular sea views is the principal artery of the region. A railroad mainly buried in tunnels parallels the road. Ligurian industry is mainly concentrated on the section of coast running west of Genoa and includes steel works and shipyards. Flowers for all of Europe are grown on Ligurian hills.
Genoa was once famous as a maritime republic which vied with Venice for control of the East. Genoa’s sea power began with her participation in the first Crusade of 1097 when Antioch was captured. From that time Genoa’s mastery of the Mediterranean grew for two centuries. During the Thirteenth Century she defeated the cities of Pisa and Venice in sea battles. International rivalries between great families however, sapped Genoa’s strength and the star of Venice came to the fore again.
Today Genoa has 700,000 people. The city climbs steeply up a mountain side giving to most houses a wide view of the port and sea. To join the various parts of the city, several traffic tunnels have been pierced through the mountain. Narrow streets like the one on which Columbus was born drop down to the waterfront where great piers and breakwaters have been built to
accommodate Genoa’s average yearly 12 million tons of trade. Buildings are high, resembling American skyscrapers and massive palaces with hanging courts and gardens built by the merchant princes of the past still line some of the older streets.
Venice
Venice is the capital of the region of Veneto which for one thousand years was a maritime republic ruling territories and holdings all over the eastern Mediterranean as well as down the opposite Adriatic Coast, never enlarging its domain in Italy beyond a couple of hundred miles from the City. Rich soil characterizes the Venetian flat-land which bears a variety of products although corn is more widely grown there than anywhere else in the country. The breeding of silk worms fed from mulberry leaves is another Venetian industry. Medium sized industrial plants are scattered all over the area but Venetian industry especially oil refining and chemical clusters around Porto Marghera on the mainland just back of Venice itself.
One time Queen of the Seas, Venice is built on 118 islets in a lagoon connected with the mainland two and one-half miles away by a railroad and highway bridge. Over 160 canals crossed by hundreds of bridges connect the islands of this city on the water where all traffic is by gondola or other types of boats. The main artery is the famous Canal Grande lined by palaces. Narrow lanes and many squares are available to pedestrians.
Florence
Florence, located in the Tuscany region, was a republic itself for three centuries before it gradually fell under the enlightened despotism of the great Medici family which gave queens to France and to many other reigning dynasties. Tuscany produces iron, copper, mercury and magnesium, the latter in the coastal Maremma plain where natural steam geysers are also exploited to run electric plants. Well known Tuscan products are pure white marble from Carrara, considered the best in the world for statues, and alabaster of Vol-terra. The glass works and chinaware factories of Tuscany are traditional. Ginori, near Florence has been making china since 1735. Artfully woven baskets, straw leghorn hats and colorful lining of wine bottles are among rural crafts. Tuscan Chianti wines are known all over the world.
Islands of Italy
Sicily, separated from the Italian mainland by the two mile Messina Strait, is very important to the national economy. Wide pockets of fertile valley land are found near its coasts notably around Palermo and Cantania. It produces 10% of Italy’s wheat, one-third of her rye, one-eighth of her olive oil and one-twelfth of her wine. Citrus fruits are abundant everywhere. The leading mineral found is sul-plur. Recently oil was discovered in the southeastern corner of the island and drilling is now proceeding intensively. Mount Etna, 10,741 feet in altitude, towers over the Island.
Until the coming of the Air Age, Sardinia was the most remote of all nineteen of Italy’s regions. Air transportation however, has brought it within one hour and
forty minutes of Rome’s Airport. Otherwise it is reached by overnight boat from north of Rome. A chain of mountains runs down its eastern side while the western portion is mostly hill dotted plain. Coal and some zinc, lead and copper are extracted. Red coral from the sea botton and fishing are other important items of the island’s economy. Lobsters, tuna and sardines are abundant. Traditionally the name Sardinia is said to have come from the fish.
The history of the Island of Sardinia goes back to the Sixth Century B.C. but the presence of over 6,000 strange round towers of square unmortared stone with intricate spiral stairways and domed ceilings suggest a mysterious civilization going back further than the Sixth Century B.C.
The United Nations
The admission of Italy to the United Nations is still pending. To date, it has been constantly vetoed by Russia. While not a member, the Italian Government follows with interest the work carried out by this world organization. Proof of this can be found in Italy’s participation in the Trusteeship Council, one of the principal organs of the UN, and by her work in all the specialized U.N. agencies of which she is a full member such as the International Bank, ILO, ICAO, UNESCO, etc. Italy is also present on United Nations Boards and Committees such as the U.N. Children Fund and the Economic Commission for Latin America of which she has become an advisory member in view of her interests in that continent. Finally Italy, at one time or another, has extended financial aid to special United Nation programs, such as the one for Palestine refugees and the U.N. Technical Assistance to under-developed countries.
The Italian Government, on June 30, 1950, expressed its complete solidarity with the United Nations action in Korea and, as tangible proof, sent to Korea a fully equipped Italian Red Cross field hospital, as early as September 1950. Following a resolution of May 1951 of the General Assembly for the embargo of strategic materials in regard to Communist China, Italy enacted a series of measures to comply with these aims. Italy maintains a Permanent Observer or Representative with Ambassadorial rank at United Nations Headquarters in New York to attend to all Italian business with the United Nations.
Last year American travelers in Italy spent $64,000,000. This ties with that spent in England as the second largest amount of tourist dollars received by any European nation in 1954. France was first with $74,000,000. The total number of United States visitors to Italy totaled 183,000 which means that tourists spent an average of $342 each. These dollars not only permit Italy to build up her dollar reserve and thus her ability to purchase more goods from the United States, but they enable the building up of another industry which will strengthen the country’s basic economy. And above all, these dollars represent thousands of hours of enjoyment and learning to appreciate another way of life on the part of our United States citizens traveling abroad.