Page T-2
Pan Amertcan
World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 195 5, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited. Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Study Unit Reprints
A remark in this space last issue that we had a project for supplying reprints of the study units “By Flying Clipper to . . .” brought a terrific response.
We said we were not ready to take orders, but the orders came in anyway, with remittances. Many others followed our suggestion of sending post cards to reserve sets of the reprints, along with the binders in which they may be kept, and in which future units may be inserted.
This response is most gratifying, and we’re happy to announce now that we are ready to accept orders for delivery early in 1956.
Reprinted units will include Australia-New Zealand, Alaska, Germany, India, Japan, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Union of South Africa and the United Kingdom. With these in your binder, you will be in a position to start a collection to which may add future units, such as “By Flying Clipper to Italy” in this issue of World Airways Teacher.
An order form has been included with this issue. If it is not available when you read this notice, write to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y., saying that you want the reprints of World Airways Study Units, with binder, and enclose one dollar. It is anticipated that these units and binders will be available some time in January.
Boeing 707 Jet Clipper
JET-POWERED CLIPPERS ORDERED
(Continued from Page T-l) liner, the world’s first pressurized commercial transport, for Pan American. Boeing Stratocruisers now are used in Pan American routes throughout the world.
“Our highly successful flight test program with the 707 prototype will permit us to deliver to Pan American and other potential customers a completely proven airplane,” Allen said. “The prototype now has almost 300 hours of flight test time. All items of equipment have been tested and retested. Performance has been thoroughly proved. Boeing is now producing for the U. S. Air Force a military sister ship of the 707 known as the KC-135 which will be in service when first deliveries of the new Pan American Jet Stratoliner commence, thus adding further to the Boeing jet background.”
The 707 prototype was built by Boeing as a privately-financed $16 million venture and has been proving itself since June, 1954. The production Jet Stratoliner will be both a larger and faster airplane than the prototype, with a higher gross weight and capable of more than 5,000 miles range non-stop.
The Boeing jet background includes not
PAA
;N80800«m—
BY PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS
only the engineering, construction and thorough testing of the prototype 707, but also experience unparalleled in the aviation world in building well over 1,000 of the 200,000-pound B-47 Stratojet medium bombers, and quantity production of the big, 350,000-pound B-52 Stratofortress heavy, long range jet bomber. Boeing also has produced more than 700 C-97 transport-tanker aircraft for the U. S. Air Force, and now is in production on a military sister-ship of the 707 known as the KC-135. This airplane is generally similar to the 707, can be used as a personnel and cargo transport which will permit its use as a high-speed, high-altitude tanker for new bombers and fighters.
Douglas Aircraft Company in Santa Monica, California noted that the DC-8 order was the largest and most significant single contract in the history of commercial aviation.
The Pan American purchase order for 25 DC-8 jet airliners, first firm agreement for United States-built jet transports, calls for expenditures in excess of $160,000,000 including spares.
Contracts formalizing America’s official advent into the jet age were signed in New York and Santa Monica by Juan T. Trippe and Donald W. Douglas, presidents of Pan American and Douglas.
Pan American’s DC-8 will be the most advanced type of jet transport, capable of crossing the oceans and continents of the world non-stop at speeds averaging more than 550 miles per hour.
Newest of the famed DC series of transport planes, the DC-8 is a swept-wing monoplane powered by four turbojet engines. It will have a top speed of 600 MPH and will cruise normally over long range at more than 550 MPH.
Introduction of nonstop transoceanic jet transport service around the world is expected to result in a tremendous increase in air travel everywhere.
Although the first public announcement last August of the DC-8s performance was based on Pratt and Whitney J-57 engines the Pan American planes covered by the
Douglas DC-8 Jet Clipper
(Continued on Page T-4)