ITALY
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
(Note: There is so much to the study of this country that it is suggested that the major emphasis be placed on Italy’s contributions to Art, Music, Literature and Science.)
I.	PROBLEM: Why has Italy always been
known as a land of culture?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	So much of the music, art and literature of Italy is familiar and should become more familiar to our students.
2.	The shape of Italy and its location has always made pupils desirous of knowing more about this country.
3.	Many of our pupils or their neighbors may have had Italian ancestors.
4.	Italy has always been “in the news.”
5.	Much of the beginning and growth of the United States may be attributed to people of Italian origin.
6 The Winter Olympics of 1956 will be held in Italy.
7. Italy has held an important place in the drama of civilization.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: 3 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	A discussion of explorers might lead to an interest in finding out more about Italy, a country which provided many explorers.
2.	If Columbus Day is approaching, the discussion of this holiday would make an excellent approach to the unit.
3.	Records of familiar Italian folk songs, arias from operas or music of famous composers might be played. The students might want to know more about this land of music.
4.	Pictures of famous paintings and various buildings shown to the class might arouse an interest in the country of its origin.
5.	Names in the news could also be used to create an interest in learning more about Italy.
6.	Most pupils will have seen the movies: “Three Coins in the Fountain” or "Summertime.” The beautiful scenery in these pictures will arouse a desire to learn more of this picturesque country.
7.	A review of some of the books listed in the bibliography would make an interesting approach.
8.	Showing some of the visual aids listed in this issue will also encourage the class to find out more about Italy.
9.	Many students may have had members of their families serving in Italy during World War II.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How has the culture of Italy made itself evident in the United States?
2.	What contributions to the United States have been made by Americans of Italian descent?
3.	What can you tell about the many historic and scenic places in Italy?
4.	What are the most important exports of this Country?
5.	Why was it said that “all roads lead to Rome?”
Pan Americah
World Airways Teacher
6. What do we know of trade relations between Italy and the United States?
IV. EXPECTED OUTCOMES!
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:- location; shape — called a “boat”; nearness to the Mediterranean Sea and its effect on the climate, trade and relations to other countries; establishment of Vatican City; place in Old World history; place in World Wars I. and II.; leading products such as olives, almonds, anchovies, sardines, silk, Carrara marble; leads the world in quicksilver; second to the United States in the production of sulphur; cheeses, macaroni, wines; the capital, Rome; many famous cities such as Naples, a port; Milan, an industrial center;
Turin, a manufeaturing center;
Genoa, a port; Venice, a port on the Adriatic; Florence, famous for art; the Alps and Appenines; volcanoes — Vesuvius, Etna and Stromboli; the Arno, Po and Tiber Rivers; the Po Valley; the Adriatic, Ionian and Liguarian Seas; famous names such as: Marzotto, Mussolini, de Gasperi, Orlando, Scelba, Pella, Victor Emanuel, Mazzini, Garibaldi; famous explorers like Columbus, Marco Polo,
Cabot, Vespucius; system of education; famous universities; Cassino and Anzio, World War II battlefields;
Roman principles upon which modern government is founded; island of Sicily and Sardinia; trade relations with the United States; growth of tourism as an industry; Italy and the United Nations. (A good deal of this information will be found in this issue).
2.	Science: variations in climate; canals in Venice; ancient ruins and their preservation; volcanic eruptions; the new village of Vittoria made possible by the draining of the Pontine marshes; Enrico Fermi, Nobel Prize Winner of 1938; Marconi, inventor of wireless telegraphy; Leonardo da Vinci, beginning of flight; the highest mines in the world in Turin; the cultivation of mulberry trees and the production of silk: Galileo; Galvani, Torricelli and other famous scientists.
3.	Mathematics: graphs showing population of Italy compared with area; growth of industry; dollar value of B. exports to the U. S. and imports
from the U.S.; reading of large numbers; figuring the age of many buildings; 17 hours to Rome by plane as compared to 10 to 14 days by ship; c. value of the lira; time difference — six hours; following the routes of the famous explorers and comparing the time with the trip today.
4.	Art: one of the reasons for so many tourists to Italy; Florence, a city famous for its art; famous names such as Michaelangelo, Botticelli, Raphael,
Titian, Tintoretto and Leonardo da Vinci; the many well known paintings; many forms of architecture; mosaics, jewelry, carved ivory; ever so many museums, churches and
______________________________Page 9
cathedrals; Leaning Tower of Pisa and many other historical structures.
5.	Music: another outstanding feature of Italy; familiar songs such as Fin-iculi-Funicula, O Sole Mio, Santa Lucia; Arturo Toscanini, conductor; Ezio Pinza, now on our Broadway stage; Stradivari, the Italian violin maker; composers of famous operas such as Verdi, Verga, Puccini, Leonca-vella, Rossini; La Scala opera house.
6.	Health: various foods, most popular of which, are spaghetti and macaroni; polenta is the staff of life to the peasant; grains and fish a main part of the diet; cheeses and wines; many Italian feasts; dances like the Tarantella; density of population and effect on the health of the people; home of the Winter Olympics in 1956; Italian song and dance festivals.
7.	Language Arts:
a.	New words — some words in the English language have some basis in the Italian language. Check on the many new words listed in this issue.
b.	Spelling — try to learn the spelling of many descriptive words which will be needed in working out this unit.
c.	Oral communication — asking questions of people who have come from or have been to Italy; sharing knowledge found with one another; making a book review; discussing some of the questions included in this issue; describing buildings and paintings.
d.	Written communication — reviewing audio-visual aids; giving reports; writing for information; describing a trip in a gondola on the Grand Canal, or a visit to a famous museum or ancient ruin; planning a trip to Italy selecting the best routes and pointing out places of interest to be seen; telling about an Italian festival.
e.	Literature — writers, Cellini, Machiavelli, Collodi, author of Pinocchio; Goldoni, father of modern Italian comedy; Virgil and Dante; poets, St. Francis Assisi, Ariosto, Tasco and Chiah-rera; read some of the books about Italy listed in the bibliography.
Skills:- outlining should be developed with this unit so that notes on lives of famous people and places may be taken and used for preparing and giving reports.
Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	A respect for the work of the Italians who migrated to America and their contributions to our country.
2.	An interest in the music which has come from Italy.
3.	An understanding of the many changes through which this country has passed.
4.	An appreciation of the great works of art and other masterpieces which originated in Italy.
5.	An understanding of the contributions made to modern law and gov-