PAN AmT/UCAM
World Airways Teacher
Page 7
antimony, copper, mercury and pyrites. Italy is second only to the United States in the production of sulphur, the outstanding
imineral product of the country. It leads the World in the production of quicksilver. Famous Carrara marble is also an important resource. Most of Italy’s manufacturers are located in the northern sections of the country together with the leading farming centers and the greatest sources of hydroelectric power. The leading manufactures are textile goods, silk, iron and steel products and chemicals. Small articles such as mosaics, jewelry, ornaments, ivory carvings and special food products such as macaroni, vegetable oils and cheese are also manufactured in quantities and exported to other countries.
Foreign trade is vital to the economic life of Italy. Lacking natural resources of power and many raw materials it could hardly exist without its imports of cotton, coal, steel and ores. Great quantities of these and other necessities must come from the United States. The value of cotton imports from the United States alone almost equal the total Italian exports to the United States. Italy must export to us and every rise or fall in her exports is reflected in her purchases from the United States.
The volume of trade exchanged between Italy and the United States is about $450 million a year. Italy’s purchases in the United States consist mainly of cotton, wheat, oil seed, machinery, chemical products, industrial equipment and other finished products for a total value from $250 to $300 million, while Italy hardly succeeds in exporting to the United States one half of this amount. The United States is by far the principal supplier for Italy and could find even larger outlets for its exports to that nation if Italy could export more of its goods and services to the dollar area. Italian exports consist mostly of silk and other specialty fabrics, food specialties, house furnishings, gift items and products which require a high proportion of handwork and therefore cannot possibly be mass produced.
Due to the importance in Italian history of powerful city entities, the following Clipper’s-eye view of Italy is keyed to its major cities. Actually, from a political standpoint, the country is divided into nineteen regions and into ninety-one provinces or administrative sub-divisions. Twenty-five cities have a population of over 100,000.
Rome
Rome, the nation’s largest city with a population of 1,750,000, is located in the Lazio Region in central Italy. The area’s resources are mainly agricultural and have considerably expanded since the land reclamation of the former Pontine Marshes, south of Rome. Cattle are raised and various cheeses, such as mozzarella and ricotta, are produced. Light Frascati wine comes from nearby vineyards. A certain amount of industry has also sprung up south of Rome including rubber processing, chemicals and pasta.
The entire history of the Lazio Region evolves around Rome, a city which through three millennniums has been the capital
ROME -— In the foreground is what remains of the Roman Forum. Beyond it is the Arch of Titus, and in the far background there is a glimpse of the Colosseum.
of the Roman Kings, of the Roman Republic, of the Roman Empire, of the Catholic Church, of the Kingdom of Italy and of today’s Italian Republic. Many converging highways still called by their classical names, the Flaminian, the Appian and the Cassian, continue to prove that “all roads lead to Rome”. Rome’s Ciampino airport, served by Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers, handles all air traffic for the capital. Because of its midway location on the routes to Africa and the East, and its all-year fair weather, the Ciampino Terminal is one of the busiest in Europe with almost 700,000 people in transit each year.
Milan
Milan, with a population of 1,300,000, is the capital city of the Lombardy Region which stretches from the high crest of the central Alps and is girdled by three rivers. Lombardy is perhaps the most prosperous region in Italy with mountain peaks and passes, Alpine foothills and vast plain. Its plain, artificially irrigated since the Roman era, contributes a vital part of Italy’s agriculture. Its rivers flowing down from the mountains furnish the hydro-electric power that feeds Lombardy’s factories which range from textile to mechanical, metallurgical and automobile plants.
Milan itself is equidistant from the River Po and the Alps at the meeting place of roads and railways which come from Central Europe through the Alpine passes and down across the Lombardy plain. The City also lies on an important route which skirts the Alpine foothills joining the Dan-ubian lands with the Rhone basin. It is therefore a convenient point of departure for visits not only to the famous tourist resorts of Italian Lakes and Lower Alpine Valleys, but also the ancient Lombardian cities with their historical treasures dating back to the pre-Christian era.
This geographical position is responsible for much of the city’s prosperity. Milan is the greatest financial, commercial and industrial center in Italy as well as one of
the foremost in Europe. It is the site of the head offices of principal Italian banks and chief industries as well as the representatives of important foreign companies. A famous international trade fair is also held in Milan. Although the greater part of the city’s activities lie in the fields of business and manufacture, Milan is also a center of intellectual life. Besides its numerous cultural and scientific societies, the city is the seat of many universities renowned for high scholastic standards. In addition, for the past two centuries, ever since the founding of the famous La Scala Opera House and the Conservatorio, Milan has been known as the City of Music providing with some of its finest singers, conductors and musicians.
Naples
Naples, with a population of 1,150,000, is located in the Campania Region south of Rome. This area contains great contrasts with semi-barren hills in the interior and very fertile soil on the plain around Naples. Campania was already a flourishing center of neo-Greek civilization when Rome annexed it in the Third Century B.C. Even during the Middle Ages, regional cities of Salerno and Amalfi were famous; the former for its medical school and the latter for its code of maritime law, the first ever laid down. Apart from agriculture, the lava enriched soil around Naples bears fig trees, tomato bushes and a ground crop of beans all in the same plot. Campania harbors a fair portion of southern Italian industry from iron works and ship-building to fruit canning and food processing.
Naples is the largest southern city of Italy and as a port it is second only to Genoa. Draped over low hills overlooking a bay, the City has been variously described as the richest in contrast and the gayest in the world with the San Carlo Opera, restaurants, palaces, churches and the largest open air theater in Europe. In the Gulf of Naples lie the Islands of Ischia and Capri. Mountains encircle the city with volcanic Vesuvious towering over all, its top often