ITALIA
Pa/v Amerìcm
World Airways Teacher_______________________paae 3
VATICAN CITY — St. Peter's Square, in front of St. Peter's Cathedral is almost vacant in this picture. At a time when the Pope makes a public appearance it would be packed with people.
By E rtrique Portes
Poets and writers of every country in * the world have written with glowing words about Italy. “Could I transport myself with a wish from one country to another, I should choose to pass . . . my spring in Italy . . wrote Joseph Addison in The Spectator in May 1712. “Italy, my Italy! Open my heart, and you will see graved inside of it, ‘Italy’ ” cried Robert Browning in his De Gustibus. Lord Byron is no less emotional when in his Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage he exclaims “Italia! O Italia! thou who hast the fatal gift of beauty”. And Ibsen of Norway received from Italy “some taste for dolce far niente — the sweetness of doing nothing which does not necessarily apply to his many plays.
Millions of Americans have visited Italy since the end of the war. The attraction of beautiful scenery, of ancient and recent monuments and the desire to appreciate the meaning of our western culture have lured them.
Situated in the middle of the Mediterranean, equally close to Atlantic Europe, to Muslim North Africa and to the states of southeastern Europe, Italy covers an area (116,000 square miles) which approximates that of New England and New York State together. About 47 million people live on this long and narrow peninsula.
By the 1948 constitution, Italy is divided into 19 regions. The highest peak is the Gran Paradiso (1332 feet high). Italy is traversed in its entire length by the Apeninnes, and its central region contains the great cultural and historic cities of Florence, Pisa, Siena, Perugia, Bologna, Ravena, Rimini, and Roma itself.
Its two most important rivers are the Arno and the Tiber. As to geography, Italy offers magnificent scenic beauty — majestic in the Alpine north, soft and undulating in Umbria and Tuscany, and rugged in the south Apennine. A cradle of culture and learning, Italy possesses such world-famous universities as those of Bologna and Padua.
The glories of the past — in which Italians take pride — have mostly gone. But much of what the nations of Italy have created at one time or another has become part of our common heritage. There are not only the achievements of Virgil and Dante, of St. Thomas and of Galileo, or Leonardo, Michelangelo and a legion of other great thinkers, scientists, poets and artists, but there are also — to mention just a few contributions — Roman law, origin of legal systems in Latin America, and those economic institutions invented by Italian businessmen at the close of the Middle Ages which have provided some of the bases for contemporary democratic capitalism.
Italians have emigrated in great number to other countries. Their descendants abroad form communities which culturally at least often keep in touch with the country of origin. There are millions of Americans of Italian descent, particularly numerous in southern New England, the Middle Atlantic States, Illinois and California. It is said that about one-third of the population of Argentina is of Italian origin,
and nearly a fifth of the population of Brazil. In Chile, Uruguay and Venezuela Italians present an important element of the population.
What is the Italian character? Generalizations are vague, but one may be allowed to venture a little. There are, of course, all kinds of Italians, but there is also an Italian type, more prevalent than other types, which sets the tone for the entire nation. This type can easily be described — extroverted, fairly emotional but rarely hysterical, considerate toward other people, gregarious, fundamentally tolerant, skeptical but seldom cynical, curious, quick-minded, enduring, hard-working (one should not be deceived by the afternoon siesta made necessary by early and late working hours adjusted to the climate of the country).
When you come in contact with the people, the humble people who form most of the nation, you will probably notice the deep humanism which inspires them. They are kind-hearted, hospitable, considerate. The stranger is a friend. Family ties are strong. Italian parents — as in any other country, of course — make great sacrifices for their children; an orphan easily finds foster parents, and elderly people are treated with the greatest consideration. Undoubtedly, their courtesy has few rivals.
The American visitor can hardly see all of Italy, as your correspondent discovered last summer. One can choose a few of the cities that might seem most interesting or more easily covered. There are some, however, which should never be left out — regardless how short the trip may be.
Milano
Milan is the New York of Italy — the commercial, industrial, and banking heart of the country, lying in the Po plain and facing the Italian Alps. The city development started more than 100 years ago. It needs patience to find the traces of the
past in the modern city and to sample the unexpected juxtaposition of different periods. In Milan one can see more skyscrapers than in most cities of Europe.
During the Renaissance, Milan’s rulers (Viscontis and Sforzas) were patrons of the arts and gave a great impetus to artistic movements. Later on, Milan became in turn French, Spanish, and Austrian. By the middle of the Nineteenth century it joined the little Kingdom of Piedmont which in 1860 became the Kingdom of Italy.
Milan’s Cathedral and Opera House --La Scala — are famous the world over. The Cathedral is the largest and most complete Gothic building in Italy, with an area of 14,000 square yards. The roof has 98 turrets and is adorned by 2,245 statues. The whole Cathedral is of white marble. The bronze doors noteworthy for their fine reliefs depicting the life of the Virgin were finished in 1906. La Scala Opera, though a rather simple building from the outside, has been for many years the final testing ground for the great artists.
Though the Brera Museum is rich in works by Veronese, Tintoretto, and Raphael, the convent of the Church of Santa Maria delle Grazie seem to appeal more than anything else to the passing visitor interested in Leonardo da Vinci’s the “Last Supper”. Leonardo began his masterpiece in 1496 and finished it about a year later. This fresco is in a poor state of preservation but one can still feel the impact of da Vinci’s greatness.
I11 the Duomo Square or Cathedral Square is the Galleria, meeting place for the citizens of Milan. It is a large arcade full of cafes, stores of all kinds — bookshops, art centers, restaurants — where the visitor can spend very delightful hours by day and night. At noon, during the hot summer months, the galleria is so crowded that one can hardly move around, for it is really a pleasantly cool spot to have a Cinzano on the rocks. Another place is the Cavalieri, Milan’s completely air-condi-