Page 2
Pan American
World Alruavr
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Let’s plan our trip to Italy.
How much time do we need to prepare?
The answer to that question is: Start as far in advance as possible, and certainly at least a month before departure time.
This is not because preparations are difficult or complicated, because they definitely are not. It is because time is needed by others who will serve us.
First of all, it is necessary to have a passport to visit Italy, and it takes time to process the passport application. Second, it is best to request space on the Clipper as early as possible, especially if we plan to travel during the summer tourist season. Third, the enjoyment will be heightened if we learn as much as we possibly can about Italy before we go there.
Also there is that intangible dividend— the enjoyment of anticipation.
For a passport, we’ll get the application form from the State Department in Washington, or from the office of Department’s Passport Agency in any one of a number of cities, fill out this form carefully, and file it along with birth certificate, pictures and fee as explained in the passport application.
The passport will be issued in two to four weeks and will be valid for two years. It may be renewed for an additional two years. For Italy, it is not necessary to get a visa.
For travel to some countries, certain health requirements have to be met. In the case of Italy, the requirement is very simple — it is necessary only that we have a current vaccination certificate, and this is for re-entry into the United States.
The only currency restriction is that we may enter Italy with no more than 30,000 lire in 1,000 lire notes. The same limitation applies to lire carried when leaving the country. No restriction is made as to dollars. There is a limitation on the amount of tobacco which may be taken in (400 cigarettes or 500 grams) and a like limitation for liquor (two bottles). No restrictions upon cameras or films, but it becomes complicated if one wishes to bring a radio.
Clipper reservations? That is very simple, and may be accomplished by calling at any Pan American World Airways ticket office, or the office of an authorized travel agent,
or by writing or telephoning to any such office. We may book the President, or first class service, or save money by using the Rainbow Tourist Service. Payment may be made in installments under the Pan American Pay Later Plan, and during the Thrift Season (November to March) savings can be made by using the family plan.
To learn as much as possible about Italy, we’ll consult books and magazines, see motion pictures and stripfilms, talk to our American friends of Italian ancestry and to other friends who have made trips to Italy. The articles, pictures, lists and study suggestions in the following pages are designed to help plan for either a real or imaginary trip to Italy.
Right here and now, let’s embark upon an imaginary trip. Shall we go on the President Special?
The President Special is the luxury, extra fare service — there are two departures weekly, of which one is to London and Frankfurt, the other to Paris. Traveling to Rome, we can fly on the President Special to Paris, and change there for the President (first class) or Rainbow (tourist) service to Rome.
In all, there are 49 Clipper departures eastbound across the Atlantic each week, of which 8 go to Rome.
There are five gateways for departure to Europe by Clipper: Chicago, Detroit, Philadelphia, New York and Boston. Shall we say we are departing from New York?
All right, we’ll check in for flight at the East Side Air Line Terminal, and proceed from there by limousine to New York International Airport (Idlewild).
The President Special is scheduled for 6 p.m. departure on Saturday, and it flies non-stop to Paris, arriving at 12:30 p.m. on Sunday, Paris time. Since there is six hours difference between Paris and New York time, this is a 121/^-hour flight. (With the introduction of jet Clippers in 1958 the flight time New York-Paris will be 6 hours and 35 minutes.)
This route is indicated on the map above by the middle line — from New York to Paris, and on to Rome.
Departing on other schedules, we might fly the more northerly route to Shannon, thence to Paris and Rome, and in this case
we most likely would make a stop for fuel at Gander, in Newfoundland (not shown on the map).
Another possibility, as indicated on the map, is the southerly route, by the way of the Azores and Lisbon. (Lisboa in Portuguese.)
The aircraft for President and President Special service is the Boeing-built Strato Clippers, sometimes referred to as the Double Decked Clippers because of the fact that the lounge is on a separate level, below the main passenger compartment.
Rainbow Service is provided in Flying Clippers built by the Douglas Aircraft Company, and they include the Douglas Super-6 Clipper and the Douglas DC-7B. As these words are written (in November, 1955) a new series of Douglas aircraft is being made ready for service — the Douglas DC-7, and these aircraft, in turn, will be replaced beginning in 1958 with jet-powered Clippers built by Boeing and Douglas.
Well —our flight is being called: “Flight 114, the President Special, non-stop to Paris, now ready for boarding at Gate 8.”
Aboard the President Special we find the last word in air line luxury travel. Besides the extra roomy passenger cabin, there is a lounge. Meal service is extra special. All seats are Sleeper-ettes (fully reclining backs and foot rests) and berths or stateroom are available at extra charge. Every possible extra touch of service has been added.
Changing airplanes at Paris to continue our journey at Rome, we’ll board The Rainbow, which is the expense-saving tourist service. On this airplane we find the seats closer together, so that more passengers may be accommodated in the same space. There are fewer luxuries, service is not so lavish, but we find the comfort and speed of air transportation are here provided at a substantial saving in cost. Skill and experience of the flight personnel, operating standards and excellence of flight equipment are the same for President Special, President and Rainbow Flights.
At Rome we land at Ciampino Airport, clear through the simple formalities of entry, and start upon our visit to this country which has such great historical significance for us in the United States. For an imaginary visit, the pages which follow will fill in the details.