PUBLIC RELATES
Pa FILE COPY
World Airways Teacher
October, 1950
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. VII No. 1
SCANDINAVIA IN THE AIR AGE
By Lou A. Phillips
Located on two peninsulas* in northern Europe are three nations which are both a part of, and apart from the rest of the Continent. Always influenced by Europe’s sporadic instability they present nevertheless many striking contrasts to neighboring states. Although all three countries are hereditary monarchies they are noted for democratic and progressive legislative systems.
In comparison with the great void between rich and poor so1 apparent elsewhere in Europe, few of the Scandinavian people have a great deal and fewer have too little. Possessed with the strong desire to be free and to build worthwhile lives with what they have or can obtain through commerce, Norway, Sweden and Denmark have traveled far towards the goal of dignified living for all their citizens.
During the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries the term Scandinavia referred to a single nation composed of what is now Norway, Sweden and Denmark. The union, forged by Queen Margaret of Denmark lasted until 1553 when Sweden broke away.
Norway and Denmark continued to be ruled jointly until 1814 when Norway was given to Sweden by the Congress of Vienna as a reward for loyalty to the Allies in their war against Napoleon. In 1865 Prussia and Austria united to take the southern prov-
(Photo from Swedish Travel Information Bureau.)
STOCKHOLM—A view of the Old Town of Stockholm, as seen from the southerly heights of the city. The tower of the Town Hall, famous the world over for its beautiful architecture, can be seen in the center background.
* Norway and Sweden comprise the Scandinavian peninsula, Denmark occupies a part of the Jutland peninsula and a group of islands between the Baltic and North Seas.
inces of Schleswig and Holstein away from Denmark. However by authority of the Treaty of Versailles in 1918 a plebiscite was
FLYING CLIPPER SERVICE TO SCANDINAVIA
Flying Clipper service to the Scandinavian countries began September 25, having been authorized in a decision by the Civil Aeronautics Board approving the acquisition of American Overseas Airlines by Pan American World Airways. The CAB’s decision was directed by President Harry S. Truman and approved by the President on July 11. The decision also authorized Pan American to serve Rome and Paris and Trans World Airlines to serve London and Frankfurt.
In his directive to the Board, the President stated that his objective was “to accomplish a route pattern in which our nation may have the benefit of competition to the principal traffic points in Europe ... This adjustment should result in the fullest accomplishment of the broad national objectives which, especially at this critical time, should govern the development of United States air transportation and will provide for vigorous competitive growth by our air lines.”
The new PAA schedule will call for: London—12 weekly round-trip flights Frankfurt—9 weekly round-trip flights Brussels—3 round-trip flights weekly
Prestwick—3 round-trip flights weekly Amsterdam—3 round-trip flights weekly Stockholm—3 round-trip flights weekly Helsinki—3 round-trip flights weekly Copenhagen—2 round-trip flights weekly
Düsseldorf—2 round-trip flights weekly
Oslo—1 round-trip flight weekly Munich—1 round-trip flight weekly Hamburg—3 round-trip flights weekly Keflavik, Iceland—1 round-trip flight weekly.
Pan American plans to open service to Paris and Rome as soon as the approval of the governments concerned have been obtained.
In anticipation of the new service, Lou Phillips has prepared for World Airways Teacher an article on the Scandinavian countries which begins on this page and which, we hope, will assist geography and social studies teachers in organizing classroom work on these countries now being added to the areas served by the Flying Clippers.
held in these provinces which resulted in a portion being returned.
In 1905 Norway declared its independence. As a friendly gesture the Norwegian Parliament offered the crown to the son of the King of Sweden but the honor was refused. Instead the brother of the Danish King ascended the Norwegian throne. Thus the history of all three countries is inextricably interwoven. The Norwegians, Swedes and Danes are similar in many ways but they do have distinguishing characteristics and have seen fit to develop their own resources and abilities in their own ways. The result has been three separate nations—friendly but free.
Today the capitals of all three countries are less than 24 hours from New York. Giant Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers wing across the Atlantic on frequent schedules bound for Gordermoen Airport in Norway, Bromma Airport in Sweden and Kastrup Airport in Denmark. Even a short two week vacation provides ample time for an excellent introductory visit to Scandinavia. Air travel within the peninsula cuts down transit time between cities to a matter of minutes. From the capitals visits, can be made to scenic wonders in the interior with ease and comfort. For example, Norway’s “Land of the Midnight (Continued on page 8)
X cUif"