Pan American
IVorid AfRmrs Teacher	October, 1950
Sp**"	Pm Auaucav	* 12“ *
* World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 950, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
BOOK SHELF...
The Army Air Forces in World War II Vol. IV. (August 1942 to July 1944) The Pacific—Guadalcanal to Saipan. Edited by W. F. Craven and J. L. Cate University of Chicago Press 693 Pages with Notes, Pages 694-824 Price $6.00.
This third volume published of seven planned (Volume III will appear later) faithfully records the detailed history of the Air Forces campaigns from August 1942 to July 1944 in the Pacific. Profusely annotated and liberally illustrated, this volume is devoted to the record of the Fifth, Seventh, Thirteenth, and Fourteenth Air Forces and their particular roles in achieving air superiority and ultimate victory over the Japanese.
Of special note and significance is the fact that in an effort to obtain an unbiased and fair report of the A.A.F. role in World War II and to avoid criticism on the score that a historical record of the Air Forces written by Air Forces personnel would be prejudicial or biased or might contain a message for air preparedness, Professors Craven of New York University and James Lee Cate, University of Chicago were chosen to direct and edit this monumental report.
Here at last is historical scholarship in its element. The mountains of documentary evidence, both those of our forces and those of the enemy have been carefully culled and thoroughly evaluated. As a result, there is incorporated in this record the mark of the professional historian. Facts are stated as they occurred. Claims are supported or denied as the proof of each were made apparent. The effectiveness of the airplane as a combat weapon is placed at last in its true perspective, neither minimized nor exaggerated.
To the ordinary citizen who desires a final report on the activities of the A.A.F. in World War II, no more accurate or complete source can be recommended.
John Stropnicky, Capt. USAF Res.
Inter-American Education in our Schools, Marie R. Madden and Nathaniel H. Singer. Curriculum Service Bureau for International Studies. 360 pp. with paper cover. Photographs.
This curriculum guide covers unit teaching in various subjects, also suggestions for clubs and for adult education. Typical of the excellent publications of the Curriculum Service, this new guide probably will become a must for those who teach about Latin America.
Korea Airlift
When Admiral John H. Towers, Naval Aviator No. 1, retired from active service in 1948 and became a vice president of Pan American World Airways, he was sure that he had fought his last war, but even though he’s not wearing stars on his collar and “scrambled eggs” on his hat, the admiral is back in action again directing Pan American’s airlift to Korea.
Four days after the North Korean tanks had roared across the 38th parallel, Pan American had organized and put into operation a 7,000 mile airlift from the West Coast to Tokyo, flying badly needed supplies and key men to the battle area.
The airline now is operating a special air fleet of 27 four-engined planes, 10 from its own eciuipment and 17 from seven other international and domestic airlines as subcontractors. This is more than half of the total commercial airline lift of 45 aircraft now assigned to the war operation.
Pan American with its experience in over-ocean flying since 1927 and its routes to 64 countries and colonies all over the world was ready with the know-how and equipment when the call came on June 29 and was also ready with the right man to have charge of the over-all operation.
Admiral “Jack” Towers, who has been flying airplanes since 1911 when he was one of the first three Naval officers assigned to flying duty, put aside his civilian duties of seeing to it that peacetime cargo and passengers arrived on time on the airline’s globe-girdling routes and took over the job of running Pan American’s airlift.
The admiral, of course, is no stranger to the Pacific air routes, having been commander of the Pacific fleet air force from 1942 to 1944, deputy commander-in-chief of the Pacific areas in 1944 and 1945 and later commander-in-chief of the Pacific Ocean areas.
From the “brass” like Admiral Towers and Harold E. Gray and Clarence M. Young, Vice Presidents of Pan American’s Pacific-Alaska Division down to the junior mechanics, the airline was ready to carry on a wartime airlift while continuing its peacetime passenger operations on the Pacific routes.
Men like Captain Eugene A. Meyering, the first pilot to land a commercial plane in Tokyo after the outbreak of hostilities in Korea were pressed into service.
Clipper Captain Meyering was cheated out of a vacation by the Korean war after first learning of the fighting from the headlines on a newspaper he found in an elevator in Calcutta, 10,600 miles away from the invasion.
A few hours after reading about the war, he was aboard a Clipper as a “deadhead” passenger on his way back to San Francisco, his family and a vacation, or so he thought. On the tiny island of Wake, however, the fighting in Korea became more than a headline to him when he was ordered to take command of the first commercial flight in the airlift, a DC-4 Clipper which had left a West Coast base June 30 loaded with 10,000 pounds of equipment headed for the battered defenders of South Korea.
The captain just took it all in stride. “In aviation you get used to sudden changes in plans,” he said. “We still didn’t know the gravity of the Korean war, but if the company said they wanted me to fly a plane to Tokyo instead of going home on my vacation, the company comes first.”
Meyering not only flew the first military airlift Clipper, but was at the controls on the next two flights, shuttling the 1,987 miles between Wake and Tokyo.
The veteran captain, who has been a pilot for 23 years, said these flights were much like any scheduled flights he’s flown so many times before, except that it was all cargo instead of passengers. “I wras flying a familiar plane over a familiar route,” he said. “We had a regular Pan American crew, lacking only the cabin attendants.”
He found that Tokyo was taking the invasion without as much excitement as he had expected, but when he finally arrived back home he discovered more alarm about the invasion than there had been in the Far East. .
“My impression wras that there is far more excitement and tension about Korea here than there was among our people in Tokyo,” Meyering reported. He said there was no scare buying nor hoarding evident in Tokyo either among the Americans or the Japanese.
Pilots, however, aren’t the only people affected when an airline almost overnight converts from a peacetime operation to a wartime airlift and at the same time keeps its commercial routes going.
All down the line in all of the company’s three divisions the effects were felt. In a few weeks the airline’s military airlift has become greater than its regular commercial service with both DC-4s and the giant 330-mile an hour Stratocruiser Clippers carrying military supplies and personnel. The Stratocruisers are capable of lifting 10 tons against the DC-4s’ five to six ton capacity.
Even Pan American’s regular commercial flights have a war-like atmosphere with familiar names of nationally known war correspondents studding the passenger lists.
(Continued on page 3)