October, 1950
Pan American
World A/Rmrs Teacher
11
(Photo, K. Kosticb. courtesy Danish National Travel Office.)
DENMARK--------Picture shows a typical Danish dairy farm with its attractive thatched
cottage surrounded by peaceful rolling hills.
natural link in the development of agriculture. Machinery was needed for slaughter houses, dairies and farms. The quality of workmanship soon attracted purchasers abroad and industrial exports began. Other industries were started by the direct exploitation of agricultural products. These include factories for refining of butter and cheese and for the chemical acids necessary for their production, condensed milk distilleries, breweries, mills, bakeries and sugar and confectionery factories. The transport problem connected with perishable foods resulted in the creation of modern refrigeration plants and the manufacture of power machinery.
Just as agriculture has produced many industries so fishing has been responsible for many modern factories for canning, smoking and curing fish. Many high quality types of canned fish are produced which compete successfully in world markets. While off shore fishing yields only enough for local markets sea going fishing is the main source of supply for the export trade. Large cargoes of Danish fish go to England by sea and to Germany, Belgium and France by road.
The soil in Denmark is poor in minerals but the few that are found are used by cement factories, chalk sliphouses and china factories that in turn share in the export trade. A capable working class is also able to produce industrial art of high quality and Danish china, silver, furniture and pottery are sought the world over.
In proportion to its size and population Denmark’s foreign trade is very extensive ■—-fifteenth among the world’s traders. Possessing no raw materials such as other nations have at their disposal, and not having a climate which can produce a variety of crops as countries covering wider latitudes, Denmark has nevertheless been able to assert itself in international markets.
Success has been due to two- factors. It is favorably situated near the great western European countries with direct access to the oceans. The personal qualities of the Danish people—skill, thrift and love of work, have also characterized Danish efforts. Denmark's commerce with the outside world has been a decisive factor in creating the high standard of living that her people enj oy.
Like other small countries it has to import a great many goods to support its agriculture and industry. About 85% of total imports consist of raw materials, semimanufactured goods and other means of production for agriculture and industry, while the remainder consists of consumer goods. Imports come from many countries but chief suppliers are Great Britain and the United States. Before the Second World War Great Britain and Germany supplied half of Denmark’s imports with the United States third.
Twenty years ago Danish exports consisted almost exclusively of agricultural products but since then industrial exports have increased substantially. During the years just prior to the outbreak of war in 1939 more than 25% of the nation’s exports consisted of industrial goods. Agricultural and fish products made up the remaining 75%. Main pre-war markets were Great
Britain and Germany. Since the war Danish exporters have been endeavoring to develop new markets in the United States and elsewhere to make up for the decreased German market.
Agricultural exports include butter, bacon, eggs, canned meat, poultry and condensed and dried milk. Improved techniques of refrigeration and methods of dehydration will make possible exportation of other types of food, fish, vegetables and animal products. Three-quarters of industrial exports consist of means of production such as dairy machines, refrigerators, engines, dynamos, cables and ships. Transit trade and Danish shipping companies earn considerable amounts of foreign exchange. Measured by its population Denmark has one of the largest merchant fleets in the world.
CITIES
Outside of the capitals of the Scandinavian countries there are few large cities. Stockholm, capital of Sweden, was founded during the thirteenth century, on a small island at the junction of Lake Malaren and the Baltic. Very little remains today of the original walled city. The walls themselves have long since disappeared and the old houses have been rebuilt, but the plan of the medieval city can be traced in the narrow, winding streets and the small squares of the town.
The churches of the old town also date from the Middle Ages although later periods have set their stamp on them. The seventeenth and eighteenth centuries are richly represented by the formalistic buildings and palaces especially the Royal Palace with its majestic facade overlooking the famous Strommen waterway.
Modern Stockholm is a city of captivating charm. Its atmosphere is derived from the water and the bridges, the many parks
and strips of forest, which reduce the feeling of being in a large city despite the brisk traffic in the streets.
Stockholm has many imposing buildings and its Town Hall opened in 1923 has become world famous for its distinctive beauty. In the social field too, the city can pride itself on being one of the world’s leading centers in regard to social amenities. Theatres are of a high standard. The Royal Opera is world famous and a lively musical center with frequent concerts by world famous conductors and soloists.
Among Stockholm’s special attractions is the open air museum of Skansen which gives a picture of Sweden’s provinces, their architecture and culture and the National Museum, Sweden’s leading art gallery.
Important athletic events are held at the famous Stockholm Stadium and international regattas are arranged in the Stockholm archipelago. Delightful boat trips also can be made through the extensive archipelago, or inland on Lake Malaren, to such places as Sigtuna, chief trading center of the Malaren region and capital of Sweden before Stockholm, or to nearby renaissance and baroque castles such as Gripsolm, Drottningholm and Skokloster.
Oslo was founded in 1048 and later became a leader in the Hanseatic League, an association of sea-trading cities during the Middle Ages. It is the capital and chief port of the country.
Lying at the head of Oslo Fjord, it is encircled by woods on one side and the sea on the other. Nearby is one of the most beautiful natural parks in the world as well as the King’s summer residence. An electric railway leads up into the heights of the city from where views can be obtained of the town and the fjord which can compete with any in the world. A great many fine walks