Pan AmmcAv
World Alrmvs Teacher
School Applicant” in which the teachers and professors under whom I had studied had to give a confidential analysis of my character and intellectual capabilities (I never saw one of these statements, as they were sent separately), 1 “Certificate of Proficiency in English”, and “Agreement to return to Germany after the end of my studies in the U.S.A, (one or two years), etc.
The forms had to be sent to the Office of Military Government before January 1, and this office has forwarded the application to the Institute of International Education in New York. The final selection of the successful candidates will be made by the colleges or universities offering a scholarship and as those institutions will also receive recommended applications from students of other countries as well, I can only hope, that I—as a German as I am—can get a little chance for success. If I’ll succeed, dear Bethel, then it may be that one day a little excited German girl-student will knock at your door to thank you for all those kind letters received from you.
I hope you won't mind that I typed this letter. It may be easier to read for you.
Kind regards to you and your family.
Your German friend,
Letter from England
Derby
England
Dear Friend
I have for a long time wished for a friend from the U.S.A. during the war our town was full of your G.I. boys whom we all loved and admired. My daddy was also in the army and often when he had home leave mummy and daddy would entertain G.I.’s and Canadians. We had lovely times together.
Well, friend may we exchange photographs. I would like you to visit us here in Derby. I live about four minutes walk away from the famous Royal Derby Crown China works, where last week we had a Royal visit from our beloved Princess Elizabeth and Prince Philip. They toured the china works and were presented with some famous china. I saw them three times during their visit. Elizabeth looked lovely. I was very sorry they were unable to bring the baby Charles but Mummy says He’s too young to travel far yet.
I am aged eleven years and my birthday is August ISth. V-J day I am proud of that.
My Daddy is a overhead wireman on the general Post Office. He fixes peoples’ telephone lines. My Mummy does eight and very often twelve hours a day working in a small cafe in the town from Monday to Sunday. We only see her for an hour in the mornings and two hours in the evenings but she is a. wonderful Mummy and goes to work so that my brother Arthur aged six and myself can have lots of extras.
We are a very happy family. Daddy was in the Army for nearly seven years and was in Burma on V-J day. He has been demobbed for three years and last May the 30th Mummy and Daddy had been married thirteen years.
Things aren’t too bad in England although we queue for most everything even sweets now they are derationed. I wish they’d put them on rations again as my brother and I
have had only a few caramels since derationing.
I have tried to make my letter interesting. Every time I write I’ll try to make it more and more interesting so I will close now wishing you all the best. The day is Wednesday July 13th. The time is 9:30 a.m. in the morning. Cheerio friend until next time.
Your affectionate Pal
Letter from Germany
Oberkochen, November Dear Unknown friend,
I am delighted to know that this letter will get into the hands of a girl that wants to exchange opinions with me over such a long distance.
I suppose that you wish to hear some particulars about me before you start corresponding. So I made up my mind to give you a little description of my former life.
My name is Ingrid---------.
I was born on October 19th, 1932 at Bielitz, a nice town in province of East Silesia, in the south of Kattowitz. I give you these details, because you might try to find it out on your map. Bielitz is situated in the Bes-liden; these are rather high mountains, the highest mountain is 1700 meters.*
There are many woods, most of them fir-forests. In the woods there live many wild animals, such as foxes, hares, roes, and nice red and brown Eichhornchen jump from one tree to the other.f Gay birds are singing and piping on the branches. There you can make beautiful excursions. There are merry springs come out from the earth and snack the thirsty travellers on foot.
Bielitz itself is an industry-town with great nice buildings and fine villas, most of them surrounded of pretty gardens. There I spent my sunny childhood. We also lived in a villa standing in a great garden. My father is an engineer and was occupied as a manager of a great manufactory for textile machines. In my childhood I spent lucky years.
Unfortunately, I had no sister or brother. Nine years I was the only child of my parents. I went to school with great pleasure. At last, when I was nine years of age, I got a little sister, Ursula is her name, and a year later I also got a little brother, his name is Klaus. You can imagine how lucky I was. When I was eleven years old, I went to the first form of the High School. But one year later, in January 1945 the horrible war expelled us from our home. At first we fled to a little town in the province of Sudetenland, later on we went by lorry to Austria. But there the Russians overtook us, and we had to flee again. So my grandmother, who is 65 years old, my dear mother, 42 years of age, Ursula, Klaus and I had to travel on foot about 100 kilometers through high mountains. My sister was four years, my brother three years of age. So we had to carry our luggage and the
* The place names are spelled as follows in the Rand-McNally Cosmopolitan World Atlas: Bielsko, Katowice, and Beskides Mts. We have followed Ingrid’s spelling above—to give you an example of the difficulties which ensue when proper names are transposed from one language to another.
Bielsko will be found on a detailed map of Poland near the border of Czechoslovakia and at about the mid-point as between east and west. Ed.
October, 1950
children too. That was very hard, you can imagine. After we had gone ten days, we arrived at another little town at Austria, within the American occupied zone. There we got information from my dear father.
When we fled from our home, my father had to stay there, till the Russian troops arrived. Then he travelled to Württemberg, a province in the west of Germany, but in a fire raid he lost all his things and rescued only his life. Then in September 1945 we emigrated to Württemberg to my father.
Now we live in Oberkochen, a nice village near Aalen, a small town within the American occupied zone, about 70 kilometers east of Stuttgart. Oberkochen is a nice place, in the midst of gentle green mountains. We have already made nice excursions, and skiing last winter was wonderful.
Here in Oberkochen we live very simply in a barrack, all the six persons in only one room with a little kitchen. We have lost all our money, our movable and immovable property, all our valuables. We don’t have enough dresses, shoes and underwear. At home I was a little girl, but now I’m fifteen years of age. I have become much taller. I am now 1.70 meters tall and my shoes have the number 41!
I hope that I may have given you a little sketch of my former life, and I shall be delighted to have an early answer from you.
What are your hobbies? I am very much interested in music, books and sport. Now Christmas grows near. We expect it with great delight. You see, on Christmas tide we must think very much of our home. When we left it, our Christmas tree still was standing and all our Christmas presents lay below it.
I believe you don’t observe Christmas in America like we in Germany. So I’ll tell you, how we keep Christmas. A month before Christmas everybody is in a mysterious hurry to fetch or get ready with the Christmas presents for his parents, brothers and sisters, children, husband or his friends.
Then a few days before Christmas eve mostly the mother of the family buys a green Christmas tree, a fir or a pine, and secretly she adorns it beautifully with candles, apples, fancy-bread, varied glass-balls, lametta, and golden stars and sweets. Below it she puts on green fir-branches the furtively manufactured presents for each of the family.
Then on Christmas day everybody is full of joyous expectation and excitement. Children scarcely can expect, till after dinner a delicate bell rings and the family can go into1 the Christmas-room, where the nicely decorated Christmas tree beams in the bright shine of the candles. Then we sing our lovely German Christinas-songs and our father tells us the Christmas-story of the little Christus-child. Especially the children jubilate about their nice presents. All the rooms are smelling to cake and green fir-twigs, which are behind every picture. Christmas-holidays are the loveliest we ever spend all the year.
So I send my best Christmas salutations and a happy new year to you and your dear family.
With my best wishes and many kind regards.
Your pen-friend
Ingrid