Pan American
«	World Airways Teacher	October, 1950
(Photo from Swedish Travel Information Bureau.)
PAPER MILL—Sweden’s Ortviken pulp and paper mill is typical of the many such establishments in the country which form the basis for one of the nation’s most important sources of income.
SCANDINAVIA IN THE AIR AGE
(Continued from page 1)
Sun” where the sun shines twenty-four hours for seventy-six days of a breathtaking Arctic summer, is only eight hours away from Oslo. Each of the Scandinavian countries has its own national airline in addition to smaller private companies. According to an agreement signed in 1948 the three national airlines now operate a section of the joint Scandinavian Airlines System which is connected with important cities in Europe, Africa and North and South America.
SWEDEN
Sweden occupies the eastern and larger portion of the Scandinavian Peninsula. Although about the same size as California, judged by European standards, it is a fairly extensive country. It covers 173,347 square miles and stretches for one thousand miles from north to south. The population is about six and one-half million people. Apart from Russia which sprawls over nearly half the continent, only Germany, France and Spain are larger.
Sweden is one of the most northerly countries in the world. One-seventh, containing several towns of importance as well as large industrial establishments, lies within the Arctic Circle. Its climate is continental rather than oceanic and its harbors may be blocked with ice for five months, whereas, those of Norway remain unfrozen due to the Atlantic Gulf Stream which brings warm waters from the tropics to Norwegian coastal regions.
Nearly 60% of Sweden is covered with forests making that nation one of the world’s principal timber producers. Timber supplies are estimated to amount to nearly
50,000	million cubic feet. Forests are com-
posed mainly of pine and spruce, valuable sources of raw materials for the production of woodpulp.
Another factor favoring the economic operation of sawmill and pulp industries is the fact that principal Swedish forest regions are intersected by extensive river systems flowing mainly in a southeasterly direction. These rivers and their tributaries have been connected into a vast timberfloating system to which there is no counterpart in existence anywhere in the world.
Timber floating channels have a. combined length of no less than 20,650 miles—-one and a half times the distance between the North and South Poles. By means of this floating system logs from the interior are conveyed to sawmills and pulp mills on the coast at minimum cost. Sweden is the world’s largest producer of wood pulp. That product together with paper, cardboard, fibre board and chemical pulp accounts for 40% of the nation’s total exports.
Of the three Scandinavian countries Sweden is the richest in minerals. For nearly 1,000 years it has supplied high quality iron to the rest of the world. Once the country ranked as the world’s biggest exporter of unwrought iron but as metallurgical processes were perfected Sweden began to concentrate on the production of highly processed types of steel. Its present high position in the sphere of quality steel production has been based on use of purer raw materials, exceptional professional skill and strict control of quality. Today iron and steel exports account for about 30% of the country’s total exports. Another 20% is comprised of such finished iron and steel products as machinery, cargo vessels and
tankers, engines, ball and roller bearings, tools and steel apparatus and hardware.
The existence of abundant natural resources of timber, ore and water power in conjunction with technical enterprise in their exploitation have proved to be the means to a high standard of living for the Swedish people. Outside of these assets the nation lacks a domestic supply of such important products for carrying on modern large industry as coal and mineral oils. The northerly situation of the country, moreover, makes it necessary to import foodstuffs and raw materials of vegetable and animal origin which cannot profitably be produced in a temperate climate.
Through highly developed foreign trade Sweden has been able to exchange the goods and commodities it does possess for what it lacks. Commerce has become a vital cornerstone of the nation’s economic and industrial structure. About 70% of the country’s imports consist of means of production. Of this, 50% represents raw materials such as coal, mineral oils and metals. The remaining 20% is composed of machinery, vehicles and other transport mediums, textiles, hides and skins, rubber and foodstuffs such as fresh and dried fruit, cheese, fish, vegetables, spices, cereals, coffee, tea, cocoa, tobacco and wines. Only six countries in the world show a higher per capita foreign commerce than Sweden.
Small Town Industries
One striking aspect of Swedish industry is that there is so little in cities. With the exception of Stockholm where there are
65.000	industrial workers (©ne-eighth of whom are employed by a telephone company) most of the big industries are located in small towns of 50,000 or less. Swedish industries are relatively small, with half the company’s workers employed in enterprises of ten to two-hundred persons. There are less than fifty plants with over one thousand workers but some of these do1 have
10.000	or more on their payrolls.
Many industries however, operate on a world wide basis, either exporting a large part of their output or manufacturing products (based on Swedish invention or quality production) in affiliated branches abroad. Two well known Swedish patents are Electrolux refrigerators and SKF ball bearings.
Ownership of large tracts of land by business corporations is also characteristic of Sweden. Basic resources such as forests, mines and waterfalls for electric power permit a wide variety of operations ranging from lumber, pulp and joinery mills to high grade steelworks and modern chemical factories. Ninety-five percent of national industrial production comes from private business ; 4% from cooperative plants ; and only 1% from government enterprises. About 40% of the population is now directly engaged in industry and crafts. A further 20% is employed in commerce and communications.
Only fifty or sixty years ago about 80% of the population of Sweden was engaged in agriculture in the form of household farming. During the past three decades however a transition has taken place to the production of food and various other commodities for the consuming public. Principal