Pak American
October, 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	3
INTERNATIONAL PEN PAL LETTERS
The letters reproduced below are from the letter exchange files of the International Friendship League in Boston.
The first letter—from a girl in Germany—was written after a pen pal exchange had been arranged by the League. The others are introductory letters, written by young folks abroad seeking to begin correspondence with teenagers in the United States. (The latter were received by the League some months ago, and correspondents for the writers has been found.)
These letters were not hand picked, but were taken almost at random from the thousands filed at the League’s headquarters. In response to a request from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER for a few sample letters, Miss Edna MacDonough, the League’s Executive Secretary, simply pulled a handful from the nearest file, and selected the best six or seven. Of these, the three quoted seemed to be representative, and to have the most general interest, This is mentioned as evidence that the letters here quoted are typical—that an application to the International Friendship League for a letter to answer in all probability would bring a letter equally as good as those on this page.
Teachers wishing to avail themselves of the services of the International Friendship League should write directly to: International Friendship League, Inc., Forty Mount Vernon Street, Boston 8, Massachusetts. An article in the May-June 1950 issue of WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER described the zvork of League and gave full instructions for making application for names and addresses. If you do not have access to that issue of WORLD'AIRWAYS TEACHER, a post card request to the League will bring you a descriptive folder, upon which is printed an application for membership.
The League seeks new members in the United States, as it always has a large back log of applicants from abroad seeking correspondents in the United States.
in Hess, four German professors, who had come from the different universities (Granc-fort, Darmstadt, Gießen, Marburg) and two American ladies working in the Education and Cultural Relations Division. Then a real cross-examination began—they put questions concerning my chief subject (Psychology) in my studies, my future plans for a job, my point of view from which I regard the events in the world, etc.—and I had to learn that I had been selected with nine other students from the British and American occupation zone to fill out an application for scholarship for study in the United States. Oh, dear Bethel, you can’t imagine how glad I was some days later when I received the different forms with a letter of the Military Government stating that .. . serious consideration be given to your case and that the enclosed applications will be forwarded to the U.S.A. with a recommendation from the Land Student Exchange Committee and the office of Military Government.”
Letter from Germany
Niederwalluf/Rgh.
January 25, 1950
Dear Bethel,
More than a month is over now, since on Christmas Eve the bells sounded from every church and cathedral and the candles were brightening in your home across the ocean and in our home in Germany. I hope that you received in time the small Christmas letter which I sent to you—thank you very much for your greetings which I got safe and punctually some days before the feast.
The Christmas vacations are over now and I can only hope that St. Claus has brought you a lot of enormous parcels and that the New Year will be a good one for you and your family. There is nothing left to us now than to wait till another Christmas time is coming which usually begins in Germany with the “Advent” season (December 1-December 24). Then every family—even the poorest—will take some fir branches to twist a great wreath, which will be decorated with fir-cones, silver strands and four red candles and will be hung up on the ceilings. Every new Sunday a new candle will be lit until Christmas Eve, when the four are brightening together with those put on the Christmas tree standing in our dwelling-room. Under this tree—a fir which is draped with silver tinsel, strands and ornaments—you can find our Christmas presents when the evening of the 24th of December has come. In the landscape where I am living and where the majority of the people are Roman Catholics, there is a service in the churches and cathedrals when midnight is coming. Every year the organ and the choir will tell you once more the old miraculous tale of the Birth in Bethlehem.
We had wonderful Christmas days this year and I hope that there will be another fine time when the next eleven months are over. I’m just counting the days and weeks we’ll have to wait until Christmas 1949 will come!
You’ll be so keen to hear something about the Christmas present I’ve received from St. Claus. Maybe, you’ll be a little be astonished:
In the second week of the month of Dec. I got an official letter from the war Department, signed by an officer from the U.S. Military Government in Hesse. It sounded like this:
......you are requested to present yourself on Monday, 6 December 1948 in Wies-bade, Landeshaus (the building in which the government is situated) between 14:00 and 15:00 for an interview with the Land Student Exchange Committee—. . .
I wondered what had happened and went to the interview, curious, but excited, as you can imagine. I was led into an enormous room in which the Committee had assembled, consisted of the four American education officers, controlling the four universities
Military specialists were the first to be flown out. The first passengers to be flown back by Pan American were wives and dependents of Army men in Korea, including the widows of the first men killed in combat.
Pan American was well into the lift operation just over a week after it got the first inkling of what lay ahead. A call went out for 144 experienced pilots who had been furloughed in January.
Planes were flown in from Pan American’s Atlantic and Latin American Divisions. Crews were transferred. Each plane needed four complete crews to keep it in operation at the utilization goal of 14 hours’ service daily.
At Pan American’s San Francisco base activity hummed at concert pitch. Operations men put in 17 hours a day adjusting to the new demands. Extra mechanics and ground crew men were hired for the increased load. Men from different departments were detached to serve on airlift operations alone.
The dispatcher’s office found its duties suddenly doubled. Crews and planes arrived from American Airlines, from Eastern Air Lines, Capital, National, Western, American Overseas, Pan American-Grace, the subcontracting airlines.
T had some busy weeks afterwards, as there were so numerous forms and questionnaires to be filled out, ie. : 3 copies of a form (consisted of 4 sheets) entitled: “Application for Fellowship of Scholarship in the United States of America”, 3 copies of my “curriculum vitae” (with 3 photos) (including informations concerning past life, education special interests, purpose in applying for a fellowship for study in the U.S.A. and plans for work after returning to Germany), photostatic copies of the official records from secondary school, university and professional schools I had attended, a “Certificate of Health—I had to be twice vaccinated against small pox and for three times against typhoid—4 “Statements Concerning
Even the Company cafeteria had to up its orders for food. Personnel Department workers were busy classifying and assigning the new employees. Flight service had to arrange for crew feeding and housing at line stations on the way to Tokyo. Living quarters had to be found for the Army of flight crews brought out to man the planes.
Trunk telephone lines and teletype circuits were set up between the PAA base and the air transport base for constant communications. Security measures were put into effect to protect any attempts at sabotage and to prevent information useful to the enemy from filtering out. In fact, security prevented any but a very generalized statement from reaching the public on the nature and size of the giant airlift until this moment.
In the PAA military airlift was Captain Basil Rowe, a veteran with a world’s record of 30,405 hours of flying. He flew at a moment’s notice from Miami, where he was flying Latin American routes, to the Pacific Coast.
In dramatic fashion Pan American World Airways, by its immediate shift into wartime gear, has proved the statement of its president, Juan T. Trippe, that “America’s merchant air fleet is a vital second line of national defense.”
OYER THE WORLD
(Continued from page 2)