October, 1950
crops include sugar beets, corn, peas, beans, oats, barley, wheat, rye, potatoes and forage crops.
There is excellent pasturage land and livestock raising and dairying are important industries. The sale of agricultural produce as well as the buying of farm supplies and supplementary food for the farm population is handled by farmer economic associations.
The sales organization is divided up into several branches—one for milk, meat, eggs, cereals, etc. Thus the time and study a farmer needs to devote to the sale of his products, to the market situation and quotations or to negotiations and transportation questions is reduced to a minimum. Delivery of products to the proper association insures payment at the highest current price after an impartial estimate of the quality of the product in question. Association trucks transport the products over well laid out routes.
In its internal structure the agricultural cooperative movement is extremely democratic. Only farmers who deliver products to, or buy supplies from the association are admitted as members. Any surplus profit from business operations is paid to members according to the amount of products delivered for sale. Voting at meetings is on a “one-man-one-vote” basis with small holders having the same voting power as owners of large estates.
About 10% to 15% of the country’s total exports are made up of butter, bacon, hides and other farm produce together with fish. Salmon and herring fisheries although not as important as in Norway form the basis of a substantial industry for the preparation of salted and canned fish.
While geographically speaking Sweden is located on a peninsula, economically the nation is more or less an island. Ninety-nine per cent of its total imports and exports are conveyed by sea. Before the Second World War the Swedish merchant marine ranked tenth among the world’s merchant fleets. War losses have been substantially replaced in Swedish shipyards. The great expansion of Swedish shipping started with the turn of the twentieth century when its first regular overseas line came into being. Today under normal conditions regular shipping communications are maintained with all the more important ports in the world.
NORWAY
Norway, extending along the western part of the Scandinavian Peninsula, is 119,085 square miles in area or about the size of New Mexico. The population numbers almost three million people.
Its topography is irregular because of the huge glaciers which during the Ice Age carved out valleys and fjords. The salt water inlets of the fjords cut deep into the country like great watery labyrinths, between steep mountain walls rising a sheer mile or more above sea level. Seventy-two per cent of the country’s area is composed of mountains and glaciers. The fjords provide sheltered and beautiful passages for cruising. Sagnefjord, the largest of all, penetrates to the middle of the country, 122 miles from the actual coastline. In many places the waters of the fjords are deeper than the adjacent waters of the ocean.
Pam Am flu cam
World	Aírwaye Teacher
The fjords and bays of the coast give Norway an actual shoreline of 12,000 miles although the general outline of its coast is only 1,700 miles. Waterfalls, ranging from roaring cascades to shimmering veils tumble down the sides of the snow clad mountains. A characteristic coloring is added by shrubs and small trees in crags and clefts, above green patches. Here people are occupied by what could be termed perpendicular farming. In other places the fjords are wide and their slopes gentle. Here are thriving industrial towns and fine farms with extensive orchards.
Importance of Fishing
Fishing has long been one of the nation’s most important sources of income. In proportion to its population Norwegians are the world’s leading fishermen with more fish being brought ashore in Norway than in any other European country. There is a large surplus for sale abroad with fish and fish products accounting for about one-fourth of the nation’s total exports. Cod, herring, mackerel and salmon fisheries and factories employ about 135,000 people. Formerly only dried or salted fish was exported but recently exports of frozen fresh fish have increased. There is also an important canning industry whose chief export is sardines in oil.
Fishing in Norwegian waters is carried out mostly in small boats. Methods have gradually become more modern but trawling has not been introduced yet to any appreciable extent. Extensive whaling activities are also carried on in the North Atlantic. Norway produces on an average of 1,000,000 barrels of whale oil a year which is about half the world’s output.
With 24% of Norwegian soil under forests, forestry and wood products have always played an important part in Norwegian national economy. The export of processed timber saw mill products was especially important in the country’s export trade during the last century. Later these exports de-
9
creased but during recent years a considerable export trade has been built up in printing, writing and packing paper as well as in chemical pulp. These products now account for about one-fourth of the nation’s exports. Since the war there also has been an increasing home demand for building timber for reconstruction and private house building.
Since only 4% of the land of the nation is cultivatable, farming must be extremely intensive and large quantities of food must still be imported. About one-third of the population is occupied in agriculture. The most productive farming lands (1% of the total cultivatable area) are in the south where the climate is mild. Norwegian agriculture is based on small farm units with 45% of all farms consisting of small buildings which have on the average, a cultivatable area of 3.9 acres. Some 55% of the farms are of medium size with a cultivatable area of 18.5 acres. The really big farms are few. Most farms are run by owners and their families with only 20% of the annual farm work being done by hired hands. The most important products are hay and potatoes. Orchards and berries are of considerable importance in many southern districts. Modern methods of factory preserving and deep freezing are being employed to an ever increasing extent. The production of wheat and rye does not cover domestic needs and 80% to 90% of Norway’s consumption of these products has to be imported.
Three-fourths of the nation’s cultivatable land is artificial or natural meadowland suitable only for grazing. Therefore cattle raising is the most important branch of the Norwegian farm economy with animal products accounting for three-fourths of the value of agricultural production. Dairying is a leading industry and dairy products, often manufactured in cooperative dairies, are shipped all over the world. An important feature of Norwegian farming is the combination of agriculture with fishing in
(Photo from Norwegian Information Office.)
OSLO—An aerial view of Norway’s capital city. In the center foreground, facing the docks, can be seen the recently completed ultra-modern City Hall. In the center, flanked by trees, is the Royal Palace.