Pan American
October, 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHFR	5
MODEL AIRPLANE FLIES WITH
AVIATION ENGINE AS CARGO
As an added feature of PAA Load Event, at the National AMA Model Airplane Championships this year, Modeler Ray Matthews of Oklahoma City made a flight with a model airplane as the cargo in his pay load entry. This special cargo afterward was dispatched via Flying Clipper to Pretoria, South Africa, as gift to the South Africa Model Aeronautics Association. The engine flown was a K & B Torpedo of the !£A Class. The airplane shown in the picture is Matthews’ “Crowbar”, with which he won first place in Class A Open at both the 1949 and 1950 “Nationals.”
In the picture at the right, Mrs. Matthews, who is her husband’s helper at model contests, assists him as Ray spins the prop to get Crowbar’s engine started.
PAA Load Event is a special competition for model aviation which was introduced and is sponsored by Pan American World Airways. The rules require the transportation of pay load, introducing in model aviation a basic consideration of full scale flying, wherein pay load consists of passengers, mail and cargo. The pay load for official competition is an eight ounce dummy, and Crowbar’s dummy may be seen on the ground beside the airplane in the picture at the left.
GRADUATE STUDENTS
PAN AMERICAN OPENS A WHOLE NEW WORLD TO YOU
Pan American World Airways Travel
Fellowships May Take
You
TO
Argentina
Bolivia
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica Cuba
Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador
Have you a Bachelor’s degree?
Do you know Spanish or Portuguese?
Guatemala
Haiti
Honduras
Mexico
Nicaragua
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Puerto Rico
Uruguay
Venezuela
Do you want to become part of today’s most vital and practical movement building understanding and friendship between nations?
If so, you may be qualified for a PAA Travel Fellowship providing round-trip transportation to one of the most exciting, interesting experiences in learning you will ever have.
Pan American World Airways Travel fellowships are administered by
The Institute of International Education,
2 West 45th Street,
New York 19, New York.
If you would like to compete for a Travel fellowship to one of the countries listed above, get in touch with the Institute for details.