	Pan American			Pan American	
6	World A/rways Teacher	October, 1950	October, 1950	World Airways Teacher	7
WINGS FOR THE UNITED NATIONS
Difficulties which beset the Ui^^' Natic^^.n its efforts to achieve peace throughout the world are many ancT variedWDifferences in language, mental processes, social customs and many other matters complicate the functioning of the General Assembly, the Security Council and the Secretariat.
A factor which offers no problem at all is distance, in spite of the fact that United Nations has 59 Member States located all over the world. By radio, any idea may be transmitted to every part of the world with the speed of light. By using air transportation, those who do the work of the United Nations can get from their home countries to its headquarters in New York in a matter of hours. With the same facility, they can return to their homes for the contacts with their own people that are so important to their work.
The pictures on these pages are indicative.
The photograph at the upper left hand corner shows the members of the United States General Assembly delegation as they arrived at LaGuardia Airport in New York City following the first meeting of the General Assembly in London.
Most of the other delegations also went to London and returned to their home countries by airplane. In each case a few hours, or a day or two, sufficed for the traveling which was required for their attendance at the London session of the General Assembly. The same was true of the organization meeting at San Francisco, and it is true of all travel necessary to the functioning of the United Nations.
ASSEMBLY DELEGATES—This picture of some famous members of the United Nations Assembly was taken as they arrived in New York following the Assembly meeting in London. Left to right: Senator Arthur Vandenberg, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, Edward Stettinius, John F. Dulles and former Senator John Townsend.
By comparison, it took the founders of our country months to get to Philadelphia or New York City for the meetings which resulted in the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution of the United States and the establishment of our first Government with George Washington as President. Only in the Twentieth Century has it been possible to bring together, in a matter of days, such a
rem^entative assemblage of peoples’
re] ^piitatives as is represented by the Assembly or the Security Council of the United Nations.
When it became appropriate for the United Nations’ Secretary General, Trygvie Lie, to journey to Russia for a conference in the Kremlin with Marshal Josef Stalin, there was no question as to the form of transportation he would use. He flew, of course, and the picture at the lower left shows his arrival back in New York City after the conclusion of that significant meeting.
Elsewhere in this issue of World Airways Teacher there is a report on the Pacific airlift which is contributing to the prosecution of the United Nations action in Korea against the invading forces of North Korea. The airlift was set in motion by the scheduled air lines, on extremely short notice, as an aid to emergency action by the U.N. designed to stem aggressive invasion—a prime function of U.N., and one which the air lines of the United States are proud that they are in a position to support.
I^^i more routine manner, the air lin ^'rve the United Nations in its long—nard struggle to achieve peace in the world by carrying correspondence and documents to and from far places, and by providing speedy transportation for its officials and personnel.
SECRETARY GENERAL—Trygvie Lie, (left) is greeted by Byron Price, Assist. Secretary General, upon arrival by Flying Clipper from a conference with Marshal Josef Stalin in Russia.
(Photo from the United Nations.)
ASSEMBLY—At the first session of the United Nations Assembly in New York the meetings took place in the United Nations building at Flushing Meadows. The picture was taken during a Plenary Meeting. The Assembly met again September 19, probably for the last time at Flushing. In future it will convene in the new building shown in the picture on the page opposite.
(Photo from the United Nations.)
HEADQUARTERS—The Secretariat of the United Nations has offices at Lake Success, on Long Island, pending the completion of the new United Nations Building in New York City (below). The Security Council also meets at Lake Success. Photo above shows the colors of the 59 Member States, flying on 22-foot poles set in a circle in front of the main entrance of the temporary headquarters.