October, 1950
12
Pan American
Wo rid A/rmvs Teacher
(Photo, K. Kostich, courtesy Danish National Travel Office.) COPENHAGEN—The many canals leading into the heart of Copenhagen give the city a special character all its own. The tree-lined streets alongside also add to the general attractiveness of the city.
in wooded areas and ski runs are also within the city limits. One of Oslo’s most worthwhile sights is the Norsk Folkemuseum. Visitors will get the sudden impression of having put the clock back a hundred years, for scattered all over the extensive and delightful park are one hundred and fifty old wooden buildings from various parts of Norway. All the buildings are furnished and equipped with original objects as a true pattern of Norwegian rural life from the Middle Ages up to our day. The buildings are all original houses transferred from the sites where they were built hundreds of years ago and reassembled under the guidance of experts. Close by is also a museum housing three ships from the Viking era which were found near the Oslo Fjord.
Bergen, once the capital of Norway is one of the country’s oldest and most interesting cities. Relics from the earliest ages may be found in its surroundings and to wander through Bergen is like wandering through the history of Norway. It is one of the nation’s few towns in the north which can still present a partial picture of a medieval city.
Once Bergen was the most important port in Northern Europe but the present and future of the city are not built on vanished greatness. A spacious and well built harbor with modern docks is today the center of its lively international commercial life. Side by side with old buildings and historical monuments lie the open central parts of the city with modern shops and offices, well planned broad thoroughfares, well kept parks and first class hotels and restaurants.
The residential districts climb higher and higher up the sides of the mountains which surround the city and are full of color, clean and lively. A funicular railway carries visitors quickly and pleasantly up the mountain to its top from which a magnificent view of the city, its harbor and the
islands and distant sea are visible. Near Bergen is the home of Edvard Grieg.
Copenhagen, Denmark’s capital, is both a gay and industrious city. From almost any one of its many towers visitors can obtain a splendid view of the far reaching city. Almost a fourth of the country’s population lives and works there. Its famous century old amusement park, Tivoli, has a good restaurant, excellent music, a fine ballet and all the more strenuous amusements within its confines.
In the heart of the city is lovely Rosenborg Castle which is now a museum containing the art treasures of Danish kings, including the crown jewels and regalia, besides rare furnishings and porcelain. When the King is in residence at Amalien-borg Palace the changing of the guard at noon is an especially colorful ceremony.
One of the most beautiful buildings is the Stock Exchange with its delightful green copper spire designed by twisting the tails of four dragons carved on the roof of the red brick building. Canals cut into the center of town and give Copenhagen sparkle and beauty. Nyhavn, the canal running from the harbor is lined on both sides with picturesque old houses. Here packet boats dock from the provincial towns and there are numerous lusty sailors’ inns and restaurants.
Vor Frelsers Kirlce, the Church of Our Saviour, is a beautiful example of rococo architecture in its ornate interior. It has an outside stairway leading to the top of a steeple. From the top can be seen part of the harbor of Copenhagen with its huge shipyards where some of the finest Diesel ships in the world are built. To these docks also come the ships from Greenland, Denmark’s huge northern colony to discharge their valuable cargoes of furs, cryolite, oil and fish products.
One hour from Copenhagen is the town of Elsinore and Kronborg Castle where
Shakespeare laid the scene of Hamlet. Every summer the immortal play is performed by famous actors in the castle courtyard. There are many other interesting excursions out of Copenhagen such as the trip to Frederiksborg Castle at Hilleroed. This four hundred year old castle houses Denmark’s Museum of National History. Its stately rooms are decorated in bright colors and gold and the furnishings are from different historical periods.
GOVERNMENT
All three Scandinavian countries are noted for their democratic and progressive legislative systems although each is an hereditary monarchy. In each, executive power is vested in the King; legislative power is held by the King and Parliament; and judicial power lies with the Law Courts.
All three nations have fine educational systems and progressive social legislation. Elementary education is free and compulsory and illiteracy is practically unknown. There are fine systems of common schools and popular adult education. In Sweden are two excellent state supported universities which are two of the oldest in Europe—the Royal University of Upsala founded in 1477 and the Royal University of Lund founded in 1668. Norway has two universities, Oslo University founded in 1840 and the University of Bergen founded in 1948. The University of Copenhagen in Denmark was founded in 1479 while the University of Aarhus was established in 1926.
The Scandinavian countries have always tried to maintain policies of neutrality regarding the seemingly ever present conflicts of Europe. Although national aspirations and ideologies are unmistakably with the free peoples of the world the uncomfortable awareness that nearby strong and ruthless neighbors can easily overpower them results in an understandable wariness to chance being over-run. However in April 1940 Norway was invaded by Germany and found itself in the midst of war irrespective of its caution. Quickly defeated, the government transferred its headquarters to London and placed its gold reserves (which previously had been sent to New York and London) at the disposal of the Allies. Effective underground activities were carried on all during the war. Denmark and Sweden were able to preserve official neutrality.
In the so-called “cold-war” between eastern and western Europe which has been going on since the end of World War II, the Scandinavian countries again have been faced with the necessity to decide whether or not they could maintain their aloofness. Norway, having learned the bitter lesson that neutrality was no assurance of escape from the disaster of war, threw in her lot with the Atlantic Pact Nations. Sweden, realizing United States material and financial aid would be received only by signers of the Atlantic Pact decided it was impossible to remain aloof and followed Norway’s lead. Only Denmark the smallest of the three countries and the nearest to the heart of Europe decided to try once again to form no alliance outside of the Scandinavian Peninsula. Whether or not this course of action will prove successful remains to be seen.