10
Pan A mear ca N
World Ammrs Teacher
October, 1950
(Photo from Norwegian Information Office.)
TALFJORD, NORWAY------Thousands of travelers from all over the world visit Nor-
way’s magnificent fjords, of which a typical example is shown here. The fjords cut deep into the coastal regions. Shore views vary from steep mountains to gentle slopes and quiet villages, such as the one shown here.
the coastal districts and with forestry in the interior. Another source of income for the farmer is found in the raising of furbearing animals such as silver and blue fox and mink.
The development of manufacturing in Norway is based on the abundant power resources of its waterfalls and on the materials the country provides, mainly forest and fishing products. Industrial development on a large scale is mainly connected with export industries. One-third of the country’s power production is used in electro-metallurgical and electro-chemical industries; 10% in other important industries such as the production of ferro-alloys and aluminum ; the rest is used for transportation, lighting and heating purposes.
Chief mining products are iron ore, molybdenum, copper ore and sulphur pyrites. Only trifling amounts of these raw materials are utilized in Norwegian manufactures, as major supplies are exported. Shipbuilding in Norway mainly meets the demand for boats and smaller vessels while larger ships for the merchant fleet are usually purchased abroad. Before the war about 24% of all persons employed in manufacturing worked in the mining, pulp and paper industries, in the production of nitrate of lime fertilizer, and in the fish oil and canning industries for export. Their production accounted for 36% of the nation’s total national production.
Other groups in the manufacturing industries work mainly to supply the home market. To a great extent they utilize imported raw materials. The most important groups are found in the iron and engineering industries, in the production of textile goods and clothing and in the production of food and related products—grain mills, chocolate, tobacco and margarine factories and in breweries.
The production of food and related products nearly covers domestic demand while the production of textile goods, clothing and mechanical and engineering products covers the demand only to a, relatively small extent and for certain qualities. Plans have been made for the development of manufacturing and the enlargement of facilities to supply the home market. These include the construction of a Norwegian iron works, the manufacture of iron products with native iron ore and scrap and the building up of a textile industry to produce the necessary half-finished textile products now imported. For export industries a program of expansion is planned in the production of aluminum and fertilizers.
Because of its economic structure Norway has always carried on considerable foreign trade. Principal imports are grain, raw materials, iron and steel, ships, machinery, fuel oil and fuel and chemicals. The United States supplies portions of all of these products. Other raw materials, textiles and clothing are imported from Great Britain. Belgium and Sweden are other important suppliers. Chief exports are fish and fish products, wood pulp and paper, refined whale oil, electro-chemical and metallurgical products and iron and copper ore. Chief exports to the United States are newsprint paper and canned fish.
DENMARK
Denmark is the smallest and southernmost of the three Scandinavian countries. Its four million population live in an area of 16,576 square miles which is about equal to half the state of Maine. In addition to the mainland of Jutland the country consists of a number of adjacent islands in the Baltic; the Faroe Islands between Norway and Iceland ; and Greenland, the only colony or possession. Iceland, once a Danish Territory, was given full equality with Den-
mark in 1918 by mutual agreement under a common Constitution and King.
Copenhagen, the capital, is located on the island of Seeland Zealand, with a southern portion on the island of Amager, and the waters between form an excellent harbor. The country’s one land frontier is a forty mile stretch bordering on Germany. Denmark is separated from Sweden and Norway by the Kattegat and the Skagerrak, arms of the North Sea. It is a typical lowland with meandering hills and dales, broad fields and sandy beaches on the west coast. Winters are mild, summers are cool and there is rainfall at all seasons of the year.
Denmark’s greatest reputation is as an agricultural producer but industry has developed to such an extent that its products form a considerable part of Danish exports and play an important part in supplying the home market. In 1800 more than two-thirds of the population was engaged in agriculture but this figure has steadily declined until now only about 30% are so employed. With this reduction in the number of persons employed however, has come a great rise in production owing to a steady increase in the use of machinery and to redistribution of labor. Today Danish agriculture is based on the production of animal foodstuffs. Production is aided by imported grains, feed, artificial manures and constant improvement in quality.
Reclamation Projects
One of the principal problems faced by farmers has been the conversion of Danish waste land into good farming acreage. As a result the Danes in 1866 organized the Heather Society to direct the work of land reclamation and reforestation! This society has been responsible for straightening river courses, draining bogs and marshes and converting thousands of acres of moorland into fertile farms by the use of fertilizers, irrigation, terracing and other farm practices. The success of this soil improvement program is shown by the fact that the average production of wheat per acre is very high. Each year, Danish farmers produce 3,000,000 tons of potatoes, wheat, rye, barley and oats in addition to large crops of sugar beets, beans and hay.
Danish farmers working together for the good of all have formed cooperative societies to provide markets for their products and to help purchase food and other supplies at lower prices. By means of thoroughly organized cooperation they also have been able to insure uniformity of the quality of production.
The largest cooperative is composed of the bacon, lard, poultry, butter and egg producers which markets its goods all over the world. There are about 4,000 similar societies with a membership of about 250,000.
Large areas in Denmark are devoted to market gardening and seed growing. Roses, carnations, orchids and other expensive specialties are grown under glass. There are acres of apple, pear, plum and cherry orchards and large tracts of land devoted to berry and currant bushes. Production is consumed in the home market and sold for export. Large quantities of fruits find their way into factories for manufacture into jams, wines and canned goods.
Modern industry in Denmark arose as a