June, 1952
Pan American
World Airwave Teacher
9
Government, leads from the States through Canada to Alaska. Ocean transportation ►affords limited service to coastal towns, and there is some river boat service on larger inland rivers. Transportation problems always have been great, but growing air services are doing much to overcome this handicap. At first, air transportation between Alaska and the States was confined to air mail service, which cut mail time from weeks to a few hours. Alaskan bush pilots soon brought isolated villages, mining and fishing camps within the reach of civilization. Finally, scheduled air service to the Territory was begun by Pan American World Airways and today no point in Alaska is more than a day away from Seattle. For example, Flying Clippers taking off from Seattle arrive at Ketchikan in 4^2 hours, at Fairbanks in 6 hours, at Juneau in 6R> hours and at Nome in 8 hours.
The cheapest means of traveling long distances in Alaska is by plane. Air transportation has become a necessity and Alaskans use planes as most people in the States use automobiles and buses. The Territory has about fifteen times the amount of passenger air travel as continental United States, on a per capita basis, and more than one hundred times more air cargo transportation per capita. While air cargo service in continental United States is principally merchandise packages, much of the cargo transported to Alaska consists of the necessities of every day life. These commodities are the produce, fruits, fresh eggs, meat and fresh milk that reach every Anchorage table and most Fairbanks households. Lack of these commodities would seriously affect the standard of living of Alaskans.
Most Alaskan communities are not yet connected by roads although there are approximately 3,500 miles of roadway in the Territory. The main system connects the Kenai Peninsula, Anchorage, Fairbanks and Valdez with each other. There are also various local roads connecting isolated mining camps and other inhabited localities with each other and with other means of transportation such as the Alaska Railroad or navigable water. The connected system is joined to the United States by the Alcan Highway which is the only highway connecting the Territory with the Canadian road system and then with the road system of the United States.
The Alaska Highway begins at Dawson Creek in British Columbia and extends to Big Delta in Alaska, where it joins the Richardson Highway and continues on to Fairbanks. The total distance from Dawson Creek to Fairbanks is 1,523 miles. To reach the Alaska Highway from the United States requires traveling a distance of approximately 350 miles from the border over satisfactory roads to Edmonton, Alberta and an additional 476 miles over a fair gravel road from there to Dawson Creek. The Highway itself is a 26-foot gravelsurfaced road with moderate grades and curves and traverses an almost entirely unsettled region. Its northern portion is particularly scenic with lakes, mountains, forests and streams abounding with wild life. Accommodations and roadside facilities
along the Highway are available at various points. Although open to traffic throughout the year, the condition of the approach road between Edmonton and Dawson Creek is such that it is not advisable to travel during the spring thaw when the road bed is soft.
The Alaska Railroad, which runs from Seward and Whittier, ports on the Kenai Peninsula and Prince William Sound, through Anchorage to Fairbanks a distance of 470.3 miles, was built and is operated by the United States Government. Branches serve the farming and coal mining regions of the Matanuska Valley and the coal mines on the Healy River. Regular passenger and freight service is maintained all year. From Nenana, 412 miles north of Seward, river boats are operated by the railroad on the Tanana and Yukon Rivers during the summer months carrying freight and passengers as far as Marshall 858 miles downstream and 600 miles upstream to Circle. At Anchorage and Fairbanks the railroad connects with the central highway system. Under normal conditions regular steamship service is maintained throughout the year between Seattle and principal ports of Alaska as far north as Seward, where connections are made with the Alaska Railroad for Fairbanks and points en route. Seasonal service is normally maintained into the Bering Sea and Arctic Ocean.
Southeastern Alaska has mild winters, cool summers with heavy rain and the same annual temperature as that of Baltimore and Philadelphia. The south central area has moderate winters and warm summers, with heavy rain on the coast and light rain and snow inland. Western Alaska is climatically similar to New England. Along the Alaskan Peninsula and Aleutian Islands the winters are stormy but not exceptionally cold and the summers are cool with considerable rain and fog. Interior Alaska is comparable to Montana and the Dakotas with very light rainfall and great extremes in winter and summer temperatures. More
rivers and harbors in the United States subject to freezing exist in the States than from the Aleutians to southeastern Alaska. The Territory’s proximity to the North Pole is about that of Scotland, Norway, Sweden and Finland.
A large part of the population is concentrated in southeastern Alaska. This area has within its geographical limits, the Capital City of Juneau and several of the other large cities and towns including Ketchikan, Wrangell, Petersburg, Sitka and Skagway. More recently however, there has been a shift in this concentration through the phenomenal wartime growth of Anchorage and Fairbanks. Fairbanks, a decade ago a small mining community numbering 3,000 permanent residents, now has a population estimated at 20,000. Anchorage, the Territory’s largest city, has an estimated population of 40,000 people in comparison to the 4,500 permanent residents it had ten years ago.
Having practically no manufacturing industries, Alaska imports the major portion of all its requirements in both consumer and durable goods. 99% of all imports come from the United States. These are chiefly petroleum, iron and steel manufactures, motor and other vehicles, wool manufactures, paper manufactures, boards, logs, meat and dairy products, grains, vegetables, fruit, eggs, tobacco and cotton manufactures. Alaska sells to the United States, fish and animal products, gold, silver and other minerals, wood timber and lumber, and furs and fur skins.
Fishing is the chief industry in Alaska. It forms the basis of the Territory’s wealth and gives employment to about one-third of the population. The total wholesale value of fishery products prepared for market since Alaska was purchased by the United States passed the two billion dollar mark in 1950. The value of the salmon pack is by far the largest of the industry ranging from 80 to 100 million dollars each year. At the time Alaska was purchased,
SAWYER GLACIER — The photo shows the foot of Sawyer Glacier which is located at Tacey Arm, near Juneau.