4
Pan Am erica tv
Warid Airways Teacher
June, 1952
WHITI
UNEÄW
KETCHIKANuÿ
STUDY UNIT PLAN
By Eugenie Nadelman
1.	Problem:
Are we familiar enough with this territory of the United States which has been brought so much closer to us by the airplane and the Alcan Highway?
1.1.	Reason for selection:
1.	Alaska is often in the news lately because:
of its nearness to Russia and U.S. defenses there of the question of statehood of its rich and ever increasing natural resources
2.	Many defenses have been set up in Alaska within the last few years so that more men and their families are settling in or hearing about Alaska.
3.	The number of tourists is increasing steadily.
4.	Alaska has always been more or less of a mystery to children and they should know more about its vast resources.
5.	Many misconceptions are part of peoples’ knowledge of Alaska and these could be cleared up.
2.	Probable duration:—-two weeks
3.	Launching the Unit:
3.1.	Story of “Seward’s Polly.” Discussion of the purchase of Alaska. Are some of the same problems prevalent today?
Make use of children’s interest in the life of the Eskimo. Have them discuss what they “know” about Eskimos.
Children’s interest in “Huskies.” Pictures of dogs, dog teams, and discussion of their uses.
Pictures of scenes along the Alcan Highway.
Stories and pictures of Mt. McKinley and efforts to climb to the peak.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How has the wealth of Alaska benefited the United States?
2.	Does the position of Alaska have any effect on United States defense policies?
3.	What future benefits may the United States expect from Alaska?
4.	How do the people of Alaska live?
5.	How do the various parts of Alaska differ in climate, geographical features, etc.?
4.	Expected Outcomes:
4.1. Subject matter:
Geographical factors; location, climate, resources, life of people, population, industries and products, exports and imports, new trends, cities, changes new methods of travel have brought.
Historical facts; purchase, reasons, date, amount, by whom, government.
1.	Social Studies (material will be found in the following pages).
2.	Language Arts.
New words—dictionary work Spelling—note many places have Indian names, Spelling of words used in unit
Composition—letters asking for information, corresponding with a soldier or a family in Alaska; a letter to a person who has traveled to Alaska, suggested composition subjects:
Climbing Mt. McKinley, Fur Sealing, A Trip Up the Yukon River, Totem Poles, A Trip On The Alcan Highway, Finding Gold, An Airplane Trip in Alaska, Comparing the Life of Eskimos Today with Fifty Years Ago; Watching Eskimos Carve Ivory at Nome. Literature—stories about Alaska (Refer to Bibliography which lists many library books) poems—Promoter of the Arctic
—Robert L. Taylor; Maps— Dorothy B. Thompson.
3.	Science
Reasons for variation in climate Formations of glaciers and icebergs
Hardiness of the Huskies How the Eskimos dress for various types of weather How the Eskimos make use of animal life in these parts Changes in lighting, housing, etc. Methods of travel, lighting, housing, etc. that they worked out.
4.	Health
Food in Alaska Life in the Arctic Games
Changes in living conditions
brought about by the arrival of many more people.
5. Art —
Pictures showing various seasons in Alaska
Pictures of Mt. McKinley, villages, etc.
Construction of villages, sleds, kayaks, totem poles, etc.
4.2. Skills:
1.	Use of varied resources
2.	Improving ability to find a specific answer to a specific question
3.	Use of maps and globes
4.	Use of discussion techniques
5.	Ability to make comparisons
6.	Ability to correct many often quoted fallacies
(Continued on Page 12)
NOME
SEATTLE/TACO