June, 1952
PAtV AMFRiCA/V
World AiHMML Teacher
11
No pulp or paper is now manufactured in Alaska but decreasing pulpwood supplies throughout the world indicate that a substantial development of the newsprint industry is possible in the near future. Public law permits private individuals and industries to establish wood products, high grade pulp and newsprint paper industries in the Tan gas National Forest in the southeastern section. This region also has potential water power sites available to furnish cheap electric power. The logging season extends almost throughout the year and there is full year round water transportation for logs from woods to mill and for the finished product from mill to market. The greater part of the timber is within 2y2 miles of ice free tidewater. Plant sites are available. Postwar construction in both Alaska and the States demands an ever increasing amount of lumber for new roads and buildings. In addition, plywood, veneer plants and plants to produce raw material for the rayon industry and such other wood products as furniture, woodenware, barrels, boats, toys, shingles and small novelty items also could be produced in Alaska.
Although Alaskan farm land under cultivation has been increasing, Alaskan agriculture has been unable to keep pace with the demand for farm products since 1932. Imports of agricultural products from the States have been rising almost steadily since that date. An estimated 8,000 or 9,000 acres were cultivated in 1949 and land is being cleared at the rate of about 1,000 acres per year. However, at present, 85% of the agricultural products needed are imported from the United States. Exploratory investigations reveal that Alaska is capable of producing 80% to 90% of its own requirements of agricultural products. Economically, this level of production is not feasible now due to seasonal production, internal transportation problems, inability to store crops, small market centers and distances from consumers.
Despite large quantities of agricultural imports there is a steady demand for local production of a wide range of agricultural products such as dairy products, meats, vegetables, eggs, grains, fertilizers and wood products. Oats and peas take the place of corn for silage and are used for hay in feeding livestock instead of alfalfa. Cattle feed is also imported from the United States. Almost all kinds of hardy vegetables and berries and some grains can be raised in Alaska. Potatoes are a standard crop and grow well. Only a few crops such as tomatoes, corn and fruit trees will not mature. The growing season averages 140 days along the southeastern coast, 120 days on the central Pacific coast and 80 to 90 days in northern valleys. The unusual length of the summer day compensates somewhat for the shortness of the growing-season in the north. Dairying is one of the principal farm activities in the Matanuska Valley north of Anchorage and other successful dairies are operating in the Fairbanks area and adjoining most of the larger towns. Most Alaskan farms are so situated that it is possible for the occupants to supplement their food supply with an abundance of fish either from the sea or from nearby lakes and streams. Farmers often can or cure fish for winter use.
KOTZEBUE, ALASKA — The girl is an eskimo and she is dressed in a parka made from reindeer hide. The puppies are little huskies which someday will be hitched to dog sleds.
Fine qualities of chickens, cattle, sheep and hogs are being raised in Alaska but not in large numbers at present. Poultry farming has not been extensively undertaken because of the high costs of importing feed. But most farmers maintain small flocks and where feed is grown locally, poultry farming has been successfully undertaken on a commercial basis. It is estimated that Alaska has 35,000 square miles of grazing lands suitable for raising cattle and sheep on a large scale. The livestock industry at present has hardly progressed beyond the demands for dairy products. Cows for dairy purposes are kept near most towns, at many roadhouses and at some ranches for the purpose of producing milk for local consumption. Efforts to establish sheep ranching on a comparatively large scale have been made on one or two of the Aleutian Islands which have a mild climate and abundant forage. Substantial amounts of capital would be required for the establishment of a livestock industry on a large scale and the problems of isolation from markets and lack of transportation would have to be overcome.
Fur farming has been carried on in the Territory for a sufficiently long period to demonstrate that the raising of fur animals is profitable. The majority of licensed fur farmers raise minks and blue foxes although some silver foxes are in captivity. Fur farming is especially profitable in southeastern Alaska and along the coast where fish, a basic fur animal food, may be procured cheaply. Exports of furs amount to several millions of dollars in value each year. A considerable portion of the income of Alaskan Indians and Eskimos is derived from the trapping of fur bearing animals. Hunting and fishing are the principal sources of their food supply. Herds of caribou, found on the Territory’s tundra lands, also support a large part of the native population. The tundra is too cold and wet to support tree growth, but is well covered with lichens, sedges, mosses, dwarf willows and other shrubs which provide a natural range for the caribou.
Alaska is one of the greatest tourist areas in the world and the possibilities of this industry are practically unlimited. The Territory has much to offer for recreational development and this source of revenue eventually may prove to be greater than the returns derived from minerals, furs or fishing. The establishment of airlines between the States and Alaska has brought the area into the time range of the ordinary short vacation traveler. Air service, combined with transport by steamer, rail and automobile may make Alaska a year round sports center. The Territory is so large and so diversified that the visitor's program can be extensive or budgeted, depending on his time, interest and funds. The Arctic is a realm of immense distances, largely devoid of human life but not barren. A large number of important recreational tourist areas which may never be reached by land or sea alone are developing through the use of aircraft.
Hunting and fishing in one of the world’s greatest game regions are made possible by the airplane, thus opening unexplored areas and adding hours and days to actual hunting time. Airplanes are often used to transport hunters to and from an established camp. The numbers of big and small game animals, game birds and sport fish in Alaska are large, but they are spread over a vast region and result in a much smaller density per square mile than in the United States. It is almost as essential to go to remote and inaccessible areas and streams for good hunting and fishing as it is in our western states. Skiing is engaged in to a limited extent by local people of Anchorage, Fairbanks and some smaller communities during the winter and also during the summer on slopes of corn snow found on accessible glaciers. Mountains, glaciers, fiords and bays, the midnight sun and northern lights, generally clear weather, dog teams, the native culture and quaint craft of Eskimos and Indians, and interesting cities all point toward the eventual popularity of Alaska as a No. 1 vacationland.
Alaska, being a Territory, has a type of government that is part local and part Federal. A Governor is appointed by the President for a term of four years. The appointment must be confirmed by the Senate. The Territorial Government has Executive and Legislative divisions but the Alaska Judiciary is Federal. The Legislature meets every odd-numbered year at Juneau and consists of twenty-four members in the House and sixteen in the Senate. Senators hold office for four years; House Members for two. There is no* county form of government. The Territory is divided into judicial divisions, regardless of population. Four senators are chosen from each judicial division, the twenty-four representatives being apportioned among the divisions according to population. Justice is administered by a Federal District Court having four divisions with judges sitting at Juneau, Nome, Anchorage and Fairbanks. Alaska elects a delegate to the United States Congress every two years. He represents the Territory, is a member of a number of committees in the House of Representatives, can speak on the floor, and introduce bills but has no vote. Political parties of Alaska send delegates to the