Pan American
«	Airways Teacher
June, 1952.
JUNEAU, ALASKA — The capital city of Alaska is located on the continental shore of the Gastineau channel. Unlike some other parts of the territory, Juneau has a temperate climate, much like many parts of the United States. It has an excellent harbor, and its airport is very important to air transportation to the Territory of Akl&sksi
INDUSTRY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
a short radius of the capital such as Mendenhall Glacier and Eagle River. Juneau has shops of all sorts, fine hotels, the Territorial Library and Museum with Alaska Indian, Eskimo and Aleut artifacts and many other attractions.
Fairbanks is the chief city of interior Alaska with a population of 12,000. It is a busy town. Its main street looks much like Main Street anywhere. There is a difference, though. Several airline offices stand within half a block of the town. They are busy almost 24 hours a day. Fairbanks has theatres, apartment buildings, radio stations and newspapers.
Most residents live as easily on the fringe of the Arctic as the average American. They are used to normal comforts and many luxuries. Women’s dress shops are well supplied with goods. Women are extremely style conscious in Fairbanks and social gatherings held during winter offer them the opportunity to wear evening dress more often than in the States. Fairbanks, heart of a young frontier and a focal point in patterns of global airways, has good reason to believe in a future as golden as its past.
The University of Alaska near Fairbanks is the Territory’s only institution of higher education. Its prestige increases daily. Alaskan farm problems are studied at the Agricultural Experiment Station. Mining and engineering are emphasized, and during the winter it is not uncommon to find bearded 60-year-old prospectors poring over homework in geology and mineralogy. If you visit the University, the chances are that you may be able to see tiny snow-crested mountain ranges jutting from the southwestern horizon. You may even see the twin peaks of Mt. McKinley, where the North American continent reaches its highest elevation at 20,257 feet above sea level.
Other important towns are Anchorage with some 20,000 inhabitants, headquarters for the Alaska Defense Command; Ketchikan with 7,500; Sitka with 3,000, the old Russian capital; Seward, 2,500, and Nome 1,600.
How to get to Alaska?
It is simple to get to Alaska. By Pan American World Airways Clipper you can fly from Seattle to Fairbanks in 8 hours; to Ketchikan in 4 hours, and from Ketchikan to Juneau in 2 hours. By steamer, if you wish to compare, it takes 2 y2 days to reach Ketchikan from Seattle, 3 days to Juneau, and 6 days to Fairbanks (via the Alaska Railroad).
Alaska is as accessible to you as any other part of the United States. Once you have arrived there you learn that the world, as John Muir wrote a generation ago, “though made, is yet being made; that mountains long conceived are now being born, channels traced for coming rivers, basins hollowed for lakes.” Alaska is a land of streamlined industrial techniques which exist side by side with ancient cultures. Many times a day scenes illustrate this. A plane circles down and comes to rest beside a skin kayak, the design of which has not changed for centuries. Perhaps that plane may be the one which will carry you to Alaska.
When an individual is considering the investment of money in a particular business venture, the principal concern is usually possible monetary profit. When the Government of the United States invests money outside of its continental limits, another, and today often more important factor, is considered—the venture’s contribution to national security. Rarely can both of these factors be entered boldly on the profit side of the ledger, but in the case of Alaska this has been possible.
Actually the purchase of Alaska from Russia in 1867 for seven million dollars represents one of the most farsighted and profitable bargains in history. From a dollar and cents standpoint alone it has paid off handsomely. Since acquisition the Territory has supplied us with well over $2.25 billions worth of products including mòre than $1.2 billions in seafood, $838 millions in minerals and $160 millions in furs and other items. Its undeveloped resources in these same commodities and in forest, farm and other products will continue to yield increasing billions.
Alaska has enormous strategic value in terms of national security for our continental defenses can be no stronger than our Alaskan defenses. During the next two years the United States is planning to spend more than twenty-four times the Territory’s purchase price, or $170,000,000, on military construction as defense against possible attack from Russia. To the west of Alaska where the Bering Sea meets the Arctic Ocean less than three miles of water separate Russian and United States territory.
In terms of air transportation, Alaska provides the shortest, safest route to the Orient. A considerable portion of the planned military expenditures will go to the Alaskan Air Command, for Elmen-dorf Air Force Base near Anchorage, and for Ladd and Eielson Air Force Bases near Fairbanks.
Alaska is the largest peninsula of the North American continent. It is surrounded on three sides by water: the Arctic Ocean on the north, the Bering Sea and the Arctic on the west, and the Pacific Ocean on the southwest. On the east it is connected with Canada by a six hundred mile border. Southeastern Alaska is not actually a part of the peninsula, but is geographically, the coastal section of northern British Columbia. The Territory has an area of more than a half million square miles (586,400 sq. mi., including the Aleutian Islands), about one-fifth that of the United States, and a 34,000 mile coastline.
Distances in Alaska are very great. From Ketchikan in southeastern Alaska to Attu, westernmost of the Aleutian Islands, it is farther than from New York to San Francisco. From Ketchikan to Point Barrow, on the Arctic Ocean, the distance approximates that from Seattle to the Mexican border. Adequate transportation to and within Alaska is one of the prime factors underlying the development of the Territory and the realization of its economic and other potentials. Railroad facilities are extremely limited and not connected with trunk lines in Canada and the United States. Only one road, operated by the United States