Pan American
June, 1952	World Airways Teacher
ALASKA — The Flying Clipper “Gem of the Sky” is pausing at the Juneau, Alaska, airport. In the background is Mendenhall Glacier. See teaching unit on Alaska which begins on Page 3 of this issue of World Airways Teacher.
\
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Our flight to Alaska begins at Boeing Field, Seattle. The Flying Clipper for this trip is a Douglas DC-4, a famous airplane known also as the “Skymaster”, referred to in U. S. Air Force terminology as the C-S4, and called by the U. S. Navy the R5D.
In the standard seating arrangement, of which this service to Alaska is typical, the DC-4 type Flying Clipper is a 44-passenger airplane. On other services, in other parts of the world, the same type of airplane may be found with Sleeperettes, which are fully reclining seats with curtains for privacy at night. Again it will be found equipped with what the line calls “high density seating,” for 52 passengers, on the low cost tourist services. The latter carry more persons, omit some of the luxuries of deluxe airplane travel, and give the passenger the benefit of a fare rate which generally is about thirty per cent less than the first class fare.
DC-4’s fly in the Caribbean Area and Latin America, from Manila to Tokyo and Singapore and on various routes in Europe and the Orient.
Choice of Routes
Flying to Alaska we have a choice of flying non-stop from Seattle to Fairbanks, and then on to Nome, or we may make stopovers at Ketchikan, Juneau, Whitehorse (in Yukon Territory, Canada) and Fairbanks.
Let’s assume we are going to take the local service on our way to Nome and then when our visit in Alaska is over, return on the non-stop flight.
Leaving Seattle at 8 :30 Pacific Standard Time in the morning we fly over the lower
part of the Alaska “Panhandle”, sometimes over land, and sometimes over water—and see some of the most exciting scenery anywhere in the world. At 12:30 (in another time zone, so our flight takes five hours) we land at the airport on Annette Island, and transfer to a Grumman amphibian plane of Ellis Airlines for the 15 minute flight to Ketchikan itself. We’ll stop in Ketchikan for a day or two to see the headquarters of the salmon fishing industry, to see the Eskimo totem poles, and if we are fortunate enough to- be there at the right time, a “Potlach” or feast given by the Tlingit Indians.
Mendenhall Glacier
Continuing to Juneau, we have a two hour flight. We go back to Annette Island to get the plane coming in that day from Seattle—board it about 1 p.m. and arrive at Juneau, the capital, about 3 in the afternoon. During our stopover here we will visit the foot of the Mendenhall Glacier, and we may make a side trip to Sitka, which still has Russian churches, reminiscent of the time when Alaska belonged to Russia.
The next leg of our flight is another two hour jump—-from Juneau to Whitehorse:— and when we arrive at the latter city, of course, we are in Canada. If we schedule a stopover here, we will see Lake Labarge where “Sam McGee” in the Robert W. Service poem, was supposed to have been cremated.
The next flight is to Fairbanks—about two hours and forty-five minutes—and here we are in the midst of the mining country of Alaska. Here, also, is the end of the Richardson Highway leading from the Tanana Valley, with its rich farmlands
which have been homesteaded in recent years.
After visiting Fairbanks we may go on to Nome via Pan American World Airways, or we may go by other services to other parts of Northern Alaska. To Alaskans, travel by air is even more commonplace than to the people of the United States. As highways and railroads are non-existent in some of the areas, it becomes a choice between flying and going by dog sled.
Return to “States” Side
On our return journey, it is our purpose to get back by the quickest possible means, and we take the non-stop Flying Clipper which leaves Fairbanks at 8 a.m. West 150th Meridian Time and arrives at Seattle at 6 p.m. Pacific Standard Time—a flight (allowing for difference in time zones) of just six hours.
Aviation has been a mainstay of transportation in Alaska since the early days of the airplane.
The pioneer pilots inevitably were called the sourdough pilots. Their earliest ventures in commercial aviation were in charter or taxi services, and eventually they formalized these operations in route patterns. At one time, air services entered the competitive bidding for mail contracts against dog team operators, and because they could make the journeys so much faster they were able to make bids low enough to win the contracts. Alaskans thus benefitted by getting much faster service, and the dog team drivers, although they naturally did not like to lose the business, did not suffer too much as there were other jobs for them to do.
G.G.