10
Pan Amer rcan
World Airways Tracker
June, 1952
TOTEM POLE — The Alaska Indians for many years have been recording family history on totem poles. This one is in front of the Indian Meeting House in Totem Village at Mud Bight.
little thought was given to its fisheries but the first salmon cannery was built in the Territory in 1878 and expansion was fairly steady thereafter. Over one hundred canneries equipped with modern machinery capable of large scale production employ many thousands of persons, chiefly along the southern and southeastern coasts of the Territory. Canning of salmon, which represents about 90% of the total value of salmon products of Alaska, is a seasonal industry however, which furnishes employment only during the summer months. Cod, halibut, herring, clams, crabs and shrimp also' are fished commercially and constitute an important part of Alaska’s marine resources.
Alaska, since it was purchased by the United States, has yielded more than $900,000,000 in mineral wealth. Mineral resources occur in great variety and are distributed widely. Large areas of the country remain unexplored geologically and
may contain workable mineral deposits. Evidence of this has been disclosed by extensive searches for war-needed metals and minerals by the Geological Survey and the Bureau of Mines. Gold first brought Alaska into world prominence and its total production has outranked the output of all other minerals combined. More than two-thirds of the total mineral production through 1948 was gold. The greatest gold production has been from large placer and lode claims operated by corporations at such places as Juneau, Fairbanks and Nome. Placer mining throughout most of central Alaska is a seasonal occupation in which employment ceases during the winter.
Substantial amounts of platinum metals, copper, coal and silver also have been produced. Copper produced from 1900 through 1948 was valued at more than $226,500,000 ; silver recovered through 1948 was valued at over $14,200,000; and platinum metals produced through 1941 were valued at over a
million dollars. Coal produced in Alaska through 1947 was valued at approximately $25,000,000. It is widely distributed but practically all coal mines now being operated are located along the line of the Alaska Railroad. The larger part of the coal consumed comes from local mines although some tonnage is imported. Efforts are being made to develop these mines still further to meet all needs of the Territory through local production. Quantities of tin, mercury, antimony, asbestos, tungsten, gypsum and lead have been extracted. Other mineral commodities produced include arsenic, chromite, sand, gravel and stone. Although there are no producing oil fields in Alaska at present, results of tests and explorations in several parts of the Territory are encouraging enough to warrant the belief that deposits of oil may occur in sufficient quantities to justify their development. Districts on the southeastern shore of the Alaskan Peninsula and in the area around Katella and Yakatage, southeast of Prince William Sound, have been investigated by the Geological Survey and partly tested by private interests. The Navy Department is conducting extensive tests for oil in “Naval Petroleum Reserve No. 4”, an area of 37,000 square miles, north of the Arctic Circle.
Mining, for many years Alaska’s second industry, employs about one-sixth of the total working population. Gold, copper and platinum are the chief products at the present time. As Alaska develops and transportation facilities increase more of its minerals will be produced for local processing and consumption and for shipment to the United States. Good results in further mining operations may reasonably be expected but the hazards for the individual prospector without ample financial backing are considered relatively large since the most successful mining has become chiefly a job for large scale scientifically planned operations carried out by well financed and well equipped companies. Of course there are still many opportunities for intelligent individual prospectors or small operators undertaking the search for minerals which, if located, can be easily and profitably disposed of to large enterprises for exploitation.
Forests of Alaska present challenging opportunities for immediate large and small scale development. They occupy about 60% of the Territory’s land area and are composed of extensive stands of white spruce, Alaska birch, cottonwood, black spruce, aspen and larch. Most of the saleable timber has been set aside in national forests under the supervision of the United States Forest Service and is sold by the Service under regulations which permit limited use by campers, residents and homesteaders. Timber rights for large scale commercial operations may be acquired on a basis which will maintain a sustained yield indefinitely. Timber cutting under proper management could be increased greatly without jeopardizing the future supply, which it is estimated could average several billion board feet of timber annually. While present timber use is substantial, the lack of commercial development on a really large scale so far is due primarily to poor accessibility of the timber areas.