Pan AmERrcAN
World Alrmvs Teacher	June, 1952
BATHING BEACH-The people of Alaska want the rest of the world to know that
it is not all ice and snow. This photograph of an attractive swimming place was snapped near Juneau, Alaska.
ALASKA
By Enrique Portes
The best way to know Alaska—-or any country for that matter—is to spend a lifetime there. Since that is not possible for all of us, the next best way is to spend your vacation in Alaska. There are, of course, other means of knowing this part of America, namely, by reading books, seeing moving pictures, and listening to lectures by travelers who have explored that magnificent Territory.
Though you may know all the fundamental facts about Alaska, it is sometimes useful to recall little details. You may have heard people say, “There is a lot of country there.” But how big is it? The answer is simple—one-fifth the size of the United States, and more than twice as large as Texas. It is in fact, an area spread over 586,400 square miles. The 1950 census revealed Alaska to be the fastest-growing region under the American Flag. Its total population of 128,643 persons represents a net gain of 78 per cent. About 35,000 are Eskimos, Indians and Aleuts.
With its high mountains (Mt. Kinley, 20,300 ft.) and long rivers (Yukon, 2,300 mi.) Alaska is a land of superlatives. Explorers will tell you that for the one Yose-mite of California, Alaska has scores; that the mountains and glaciers of the Rockies are duplicated and a hundred-fold exceeded in Alaska.
Alaska was discovered, as is well known, by Vitus Bering, a Dane employed by Russia, who found Bering Strait in 1728 and Alaska 1741, dying there on December 8 of the same year. Cook, Vancouver and Mackenzie, British explorers, visited the western coast in 1776, 1791-94 and 1793 respectively. Alexander Baranov, Russian governor, 1790-1819, established his office at Sitka. About 40 years later, William S. Seward, Secretary of State under President
Johnson, bought Alaska for $7,200,000. Opponents of the purchase called it “Seward’s Folly”. The Treaty was signed on March 30, 1867, and announced by the President on June 20, 1867. Since that date, Alaska has been part of the United States. In 1912 Alaska became an Organized Territory. The Territory is governed by a legislative assembly of 16 senators elected for 4 years, and 24 representatives elected for 2 years. A delegate is sent to Congress but has no vote. The governor is appointed by the President of the United States.
These are the facts in general terms. There are, however, many misconceptions which need clarification. For instance, one often hears that Eskimos live in ice houses. The word “igloo” or “iglu” means building, and refers in Alaska to a house of earth and wood. Snow houses are occasionally built for emergency use on the trail, but never are used permanently for dwellings. Another error one hears, concerns the continuous darkness from three to four months in Alaska. The Arctic is never in total darkness. This is due to the refraction of light from below the horizon and to the bright moonlight on the snow. The number of hours yearly during which print can be read out of doors is as great in the Arctic as in the tropics. Now, the old error that nothing green grows in Alaska has long been dispelled. Alaska has nearly 400,000 square miles of well-developed forests, and about 65,000 square miles of land suitable to agriculture. Cabbages, potatoes, and other hardy vegetables flourish far north of the Arctic Circle. Roses, lilacs, peonies, lilies, honeysuckles, and many varieties of bushes and berries grow profusely. Delphiniums bloom recklessly, from eight to nine feet high. This proves that Alaska is not solely a land of ice and snow. At Fair-
banks, for instance, some 120 miles south of the Arctic Circle it is sometimes 100 degrees in the shade. Luxuriant vegetation! and mildness of climate have caused several regions of Alaska to be facetiously referred to as the “banana belt”.
How many Alaskans?
The native Alaskans may be divided roughly into four groups, inhabiting four geographic areas: the Indians of southeastern Alaska; the Indians of the interior or Athapascans; the Aleuts, and the Eskimos. It is said that the language is almost identical from Greenland to Labrador, and from Greenland to Barrow. An Eskimo from Greenland has no trouble in speaking with a Barrow Eskimo. The active daily vocabulary runs about 10,000 words, most of which are either nouns or verbs; they form the adjective and adverb meanings by inflexion. The inflexion is so complicated, according to some authorities, that a single noun can be written in more than a thousand forms, each having a meaning of its own.
Suppose you want to learn the language. Simply ask an Eskimo who speaks English, “What is your word for knife?” The Eskimo will answer “savik.” And, you continue, “What is your word for ‘big’?” Whereupon the answer will be “angirok.” Now, you think, “I know how to say ‘big knife’.” But you do not, for the Eskimo does not say “big knife.” He inflects the word and a “big knife” is not “savik angirok” or “angirok savik”. It is “savi-puk.” For more inflexion you can take the word iglu (shelter of any sort). Iglupuk means a large house; iglunguak, a make-believe or playhouse; iglorak, a wooden house; igluliak, a house that someone built, and so on for several hundred variations of one word iglu.
Because Eskimo proved too difficult for others to learn, there has grown up a trade language, a trading jargon of Chinook, which is dying, not without having enriched the “American” language with a few permanent contributions and a number of colorful localisms. A knowledge of this jargon was indispensable to white traders who used it extensively in Alaska during the second half of the XIX century. Although the Chinook jargon had a vocabulary of over 500 words, it had no grammar; it varied from place to place. From the English, Chinook borrowed such words as house, stick, and boat. Many English words would not carry over into Chinook because the Indians could not pronounce certain letters—thus fish became pish and carbine, calipeen. There are Chinook expressions still used, such as chick (water, steam), hi yun (plenty), iglu (sod house, any Eskimo dwelling), kayak (single-passenger skin boat), uniak (large skin boat).
There are many interesting legends about these people of the North. One of these refers to a battle in the series of wars between the Stikines and the Sitkas. Fighting all summer in a desultory squabbling way, now under cover, now in the open, watching for every chance for a shot, none of the Indians dared venture to the salmon streams or berry fields to procure their