Pan American
World Airways Teach eh	June, 1952
Pah Amerlcah World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1952, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
PAA Load Event
Again this summer Pan American World Airways will sponsor the contest for model airplanes which requires that the models fly with pay load aboard, and which is known ail over the world in modeling circles as PAA Load Event.
The Nationals, championship contest of modeling in the United States, will be held at the U. S. Naval Air Station, Los Ala-mitos, California July 27 to August 3 this year, and PAA Load Event will be a feature. The pay load contest is scheduled for more than twenty other important flying-model contests this summer.
Detailed information may be had by sending a post card to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City, N. Y.
Educational Travel
At the St. Louis meeting of the National Council for Educational Travel, Dr. Frank W. Hubbard, Director, Research Division, N.E.A. read a report which deserves some quotations here:
“About five years ago the NEA Research Division asked 150 classroom teachers, who were delegates to an NEA Representative Assembly, to give answers to a series of questions on trips. The preferences expressed by this group were:
1.	On the average, they wanted summer trips of about 4J4 weeks.
2.	Half of them would like to make a trip every third summer; one-third wanted a trip every other year.
3.	Nearly 60 per cent reported that their boards of education would give them credit on travel as an evidence of professional growth.
4.	Nearly half of the group wanted college credit for educational travel.
5.	Most of them preferred to travel in the summer although a little more than 40 percent would like to take 10-day trips during the Christmas holidays.
“In 1947 the NEA Research Division obtained information from 34 superintendents of schools in cities over 30,000 in population on the question of whether or not educational travel could be used as professional training in connection with salary schedules. Of the 34 replies, six said “no”; five said “no” but indicated that the idea was under consideration; and 23 reported that travel was acceptable as evidence of professional growth.
"We now can bring these general statistics up to the school year 1950-51. Recently, the NEA Research Division asked 4372 school systems to answer a detailed questionnaire on teacher personnel practices. Thirty-seven percent, or 1615 city systems, completed the blank. One in 5 of the cities replying said that they allowed teachers to use educational travel in fulfilling the requirements for professional growth.
“In the cities between 10,000 and 100,000 in population nearly one-third accept educational travel. In the largest cities, about 20 per cent; in the small cities under 100,000 in population, about 15 percent. Comparison of these percents with a similar study made, in 1940-41 shows that this acceptance of educational travel has taken place largely in the past decade...
“In 1949 the Educational Research Service sent an inquiry to 363 superintendents of schools in cities over 30,000 in population regarding the credits allowed to meet the professional growth requirements of salary schedules. Replies were received from 198. Of this number 79 reported that classroom teachers were required at stated intervals to submit evidence of professional growth in order to continue to receive increments on the salary schedule.
“In city school systems the phrase ‘evidence of professional growth’ is usually interpreted in terms of college units. However, 56 of the 79 cities allow some substitution of equivalent preparation or experiences for at least part of the required college requirements. Of the substitutes allowed, ‘travel’ was the most frequently reported— nearly 86 percent of the 56 cities accept it for salary schedule purposes. Its nearest rival, ‘conferences and workshops,’ was acceptable in about half of the 56 cities...
“There continues to be relatively little research about educational travel as a method for producing professional growth. There are some general statistics as to the extent of its recognition in connection with salary schedules in city school systems. The NEA Research Division will continue to report from time to time on this phase of the problem.
“There is a real need for study of the effect of educational travel upon those who use it in place of other methods of professional growth. We should know more about the effect of travel as compared with workshops, college courses, individual research, and the various types of in service training now possessing larger and brighter academic haloes. This research will be difficult to do because of the intangible factors involved. However, we cannot escape such
investigations unless we are willing to undertake a long process of convincing boards of education and superintendents that there is education in educational travel.”
Alaska
Alaskan Airways was formed by Pan American Airways in 1928 by merging some of the existing companies and providing them with new flying equipment. For operations during the winter at temperatures far below zero, special maintenance procedures had to be developed—including a bangar with two different temperature levels in two rooms. Airplanes were brought into an outside room and warmed from far below zero to about zero—then brought into a second room to be warmed to a level convenient for mechanical work.
The Alaska operation now is part of the Pacific Alaska Division of Pan American World Airways.
(See Teaching Unit on Alaska—page 3.)
RECORD SUMMER TRAVEL
(Continued from Page 1)
students have been described in previous issues of World Airways Teacher. Detailed information may be had at any PAA office or travel agency.
It is important to1 remember, too1, that travel to other parts of the world will be highly popular. For example, Lafayette College this year offers a trip around the world, and another to Latin America—both for college credit. University of Indiana has similar travel offerings as part of its summer session, and for credit. The Travel Division of the National Education Association has noteworthy tours to South America for the summer, also' other travel offerings about which information may be had from. NEA.
Universities in Latin America have set up programs of special interest to students from the United States, and by reason of long experience in offering such courses, have planned them in such a way as to be available for college credit in the United States. (Those desiring credit at home universities should check with authorities before enrolling for the courses.)
Universities with such courses this year include University of San Marcos at Lima, Peru; University of San Carlos, Guatemala ; University of Chile, Santiago; University of Costa Rica, San Jose, Costa Rica ; University of Habana, Habana, Cuba; Central University, Quito, Ecuador and National University of Mexico, Mexico, D.F.