VOL. Vili No. 5
SUPER PLANE-LOAD CROSSES ATLANTIC ON SUPER-6 CLIPPER
Some of the 87 passengers carried on the flight as they prepared to board the Super-6 Clipper Betsy Ross for the inauguration May 1 of Pan American World Airways’ New Low-Fare Transatlantic Rainbow Service between New York and Europe. The Giant Clipper left New York International Airport at 1 :30 P.M. (EDT) and arrived in London early in the morning of Fri., May 2. The passenger list made up the largest number of travelers ever to board a regularly scheduled transatlantic flight. During the school vacations beginning in late May and early June bookings include many teachers.
RECORD SUMMER TRAVEL SEASON PREDICTED FOR 1952
The summer of 1952 will be a record travel season.
The greatest single factor operating to boost volume of travel this year is the introduction of tourist type service across the Atlantic on the scheduled air lines.
This means a round trip fare of $482 between New York and London and proportionately low fares for destinations beyond. London.
Tourist service fares are about 30 percent less than first class.
The photograph above shows some of the 87 passengers who departed May 1 on the initial flight of Pan American World Airways’ Rainbow Service. They gain the advantage of the thirty-per-cent lower fare chiefly through “high density seating.” The seating arrangements are such that more passengers may fly on the one airplane.
Other factors also are involved. Instead of being served complimentary meals, passengers on the tourist service flights pay a nominal charge for meals enroute. The baggage allowance is forty-four pounds, as contrasted with sixty-six for first class. In
certain other respects the luxuries of first class travel have been abbreviated in the interest of economy—to provide a lower fare.
This is a practice which has been routine in other forms of transportation for many years, and of course it is not brand new to air transportation either. Pan American inaugurated the first air tourist service on the Puerto Rico route in 1948, and comparable service has been available on domestic routes—within the U. S.—for about three years.
Operationally, the air service is the same for tourist and first class flights. Flight crews and ground service personnel follow the same procedures and observe the same requirements.
The Super Sixes with which PAA operates the Rainbow Service are brand new airplanes ordered especially for the service and equipped especially to accommodate the passenger loads anticipated for it. They are the new Douglas DC6B’s, used in other versions for luxury service on PAA routes and on other air lines.
Tourist service across the Atlantic—proposed several years ago by Pan American World Airways—was made possible this year by agreement in the International Air Transport Association, and approval by the Civil Aeronautics Board of the United States and Civil aviation authorities in other countries.
Since it is founded on international agreement, tourist service is offered by the other companies operating on the Atlantic, and as of this writing 61 departures for Europe have been scheduled (with matching return flights). As demand for space has been heavy, the number of flights will be increased by adding to frequencies or putting on extra sections, whenever flight equipment for that purpose is available.
As an added convenience for those persons to whom tourist class service (and fares) will appeal, travel operators have set up package arrangements which include air transportation, connecting ground transportation, hotels and meals. Some of those having special appeal for teachers and (Continued, on Page 2)