Page 12
McConnell. Illustrates the growth of Mexican cities, and modern improvements in transportation.
FARMERS OF MEXICO - 60 fr. si. with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, 1345 Diversey Blvd. Chicago, 111. By means of photographs and maps shows the life of farm people in various regions of Mexico.
FIESTA DAY — 40 fr. si. with captions, color. Young America Films, Inc. 18 East 41st St., N.Y.C.
Scenes of Fiesta Day and market day at Oaxaca, a Mexican village.
LAND OF MEXICO — 70 fr. si. with captions. b and w. Encyclopedia Britannica Films. Wilmette, 111.
Reviews geographic and economic aspects of modern Mexico. Describes natural resources and industries. Emphasizes strategic geographical relations to the United States.
PEDRO AND MARIA OF MEXICO. 22 fr. si. with captions, color. Eyegate House, Inc. 2716 — 41st Ave., Long Island City, N. Y.
Describes life in Mexico: the haciendas, the peon’s straw hut made of adobe, the village square and market place, the maguey plant and its uses, and the work of Mexican silversmiths.
MEXICO — 62 fr. si. with captions, b. and w. Society for Visual Education, 1345 Diversey Blvd., Chicago, 111.
Based on pictures from Life Magazine, this fdmstrip presents a history of Mexico from the time of Cortez to the election of President Cortinez, and a view of this country of extremes, from her rugged mountains, steaming jungles, and arid deserts to her modern farms, factories, and universities.
MEXICO — 8 fr. each, si. with captions, color. Elkins Co., 10031 Commerce, Lu-junga, Cal.
The following series of filmstrips depicting the daily activities of the Mexicans, their arts and crafts and the climate and physical geography of the country have been planned to correlate with the California state social studies curriculum. They include photographs and relief maps and are accompanied by a script.
Theresa and her Family; Mexican People; Schools of Mexico; Hot, Wet Lands; Temperate Plateau Lands; Mountain Lands and the Volcanoes; Arts and Crafts.
MARVELS OF MEXICO - A series of 8 filmstrips correlated with “Building our Hemispheres” by Clyde B. Moore, published by Chas. Scribner’s Sons, New York City. These filmstrips — 30 fr. silent color — “The History of Mexico; “Mexico — The Land and its Uses” — “How the People of Mexico Live”, “Mexican Markets,” “Mexico City” “Arts and Crafts” and “Mexicans at Play”, present a vivid, colorful picture of the Mexico of to-day, stressing not only the history and geography of Mexico but also the daily activities.
Records
Songs of Mexico (FP 815)
Mexican Folk Songs (FP 815/2)
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St.
New York City. 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
Heard in these two record albums are
World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
many of the fascinating songs and dances from all over Mexico — the remote villages and the city cafes. Some are sung and played by professional interpreters (such as the Trio Aguillilas in “Sones of Mexico”) others by illustrious village musicians, from Huasteca, Michoacan, Veracruz, El Casabel; in huapangos, sones, rancheras, marimbas, with guitars, harps and fiddles. Each album contains detailed background notes and the song texts in Spanish and in English.
Mexican Corridos (FP 912)
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St.
New York City. 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
Corridos, which might be described as national epics in song (with guitar accompaniment), like ballads everywhere, tell of happenings current or historical in community and national life. They are the
MEXICO BIB
(Note to Teachers: There is a wealth of material on Mexico. This bibliography can in no way include all the good books and magazine articles which are in evidence on Mexico. This listing, therefore, is suggestive and you will find many other titles which can be used to good advantage.) Mexico Around Me — Miller —
Reynal & Hitchcock Another Mexico — Greene — Viking The Sudden View — Bedford — Harper Anahuac — Chadourne — London Elek These Are The Mexicans — Cirwin — Reynal & Hitchcock All the Best in Mexico — Clark —
Dodd Mead
Mexico — Clark — Dodd Mead Mexico Revisited — Fergusson — Knopf Mexico and Cuba On Your Own — de Gamez & Pastore — Doubleday History of Conquest of Mexico —
Prescott — Lippincott Now In Mexico — Strode — Harcourt Brace Mexico Before Cortez — Thompson — Scribner
Discovery and Conquest of Mexico — del Castillo — Farrar, Straus, Cudahy Conquest of Mexico — Prescott — Messner Tempest Over Mexico — King —
Little Brown
Guaracha Trail — Parker — Dutton The Land of Shorter Shadows —
Gardner — Morrow
Village In The Sun — Chandos — Putnam Where The Strange Roads Go Down —
Del Villar — Macmillan Mexico and Inca Lands — Busconi —
Holiday House
First Book Of Mexico — Epstein — Watts Caribbean Lands — Carpenter —
American Book Mexico — Castillo — Wheeler This Is Mexico — McNally — Dodd Mead Let’s Read About Mexico — May — Fideler Picture Map Geography — Quinn — Stokes Conquest of Mexico — Prescott —
Doubleday
Cortes of Mexico — Syme — Morrow Fancy Free — Bryant — Bobbs Merrill Eagle In The Valley — Kohan —
Childrens Press
Hungry Moon — Ross — Knopf
Three In The Jungle — Shields — Harcourt
Boy Who Could Do Anything — Brenner —
‘vignettes’ of Mexican life to be treasured long in memory. The booklet accompanying this record album has descriptive notes by Henry Cowell and song texts in Spanish and in English.
Indian Music of Mexico (P 413)
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th St.
New York City. 33-1/3 rpm longplay record.
This record album provides an opportunity to hear examples of the music of Indian tribes who have inhabited Mexico for many centuries and live in towns now familiar to tourists; Sonora, Jalisco and other mountain regions. There is a variety of music associated with their mode of life, such as fiesta and harvest songs, dance music and lullabies. The instruments include flutes and drums. Background notes accompanying the record album are by Henrietta Yurchenco and Gordon Ekholm.
LIOGRAPHY
Scott
Star Mountain — Campbell — Whittlesey Wooden Saddles — Lay — Morrow Faraway Holiday — Long — Morrow Young Mexico — Peck — McBride Made in Mexico — Smith — Knopf Juarez, Hero of Mexico — Baker — Vanguard
Your Mexican Holiday — Brenner — Putnam
Days of Ofelia — Diamant — Houghton Liberators and Heroes of Mexico and Central America — Lansing — Page Treasury of Mexican Folkways — Toor — Crown
Burrito — King — Dutton
Books Across the Border — Bailey —
Dodd Mead
The Burro That Had A Name — Beim — Harcourt Brace
The Fabulous Firework Family — Flora — Harcourt Brace
The Young Americans in Mexico — Decatur — Heath Nancy Goes to Mexico — Lanks — American News Mexico — Instructor Unit Mexico — Pan American Union Song Source Material — Wright & Lossing — Columbia Magazine Articles Holiday — December 1954, July 1955 Readers Digest — March 1956,
September 1956
Saturday Review — April 23, 1955 Travel — August 1955, March 1957 Coronet — October 1955 Parents Magazine — April 1955 Home and Gardens — January 1956 Time — December 5, 1955,
January 14, 1957
American Heritage — February 1957 Vogue — October 1956
For Further Information:
Mexican Advisory Tourist Bureau —
501 5th Avenue, N.Y.C.
Mexican Consulate General —
745 5th Avenue, N.Y.C.
Mexican Delegation to the United Nations— 270 Park Avenue, N.Y.C.
Mexican Government Tourist Bureau —
630 5th Avenue, N.Y.C.
Mexican Information Center —
220 W. 42 Street, N.Y.C.