Page 10
Won lo Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT
How Much Did We Learn About Mexico?
I. After studying about Mexico, can you give the meanings of the following words?
	frijole	tierra fria
	corrido	tierra templada
	tortillas	tierra caliente
	tacos	Nueva España
	fiesta	hacienda
	enchiladas	sombrero
	tostados	mestizos
	rebozo	patio
	sarapes poncho	jai alai
II. MATCH:		
1.	Xochimilco	volcano
2.	Acapulco	important seaport
3.	Cuernavaca	oil city
4.	Popocatepetl	capital
5.	Yucatan	city of churches
6.	Mexico City	2nd. city of Mexico
7.	Guadalajara	floating gardens
8.	Puebla	“Cow’s Horn”
9.	Tampico	peninsula
10.	Vera Cruz	resort
III.	Locate on a map of Mexico:
Mexico City Acapulco Yucatan Cuernavaca Guadalajara Baja California Guatemala Gulf of Mexico Gulf of California Rio Grande River Pacific Ocean
Eastern and Western Sierra Madre Puebla Vera Cruz T ampico
IV.	What did the following contribute to the history of Mexico?
1.	The Mayas
2.	The Toltecs
3.	The Aztecs
4.	Cortes
5.	Montezuma
6.	de Cordoba
7.	Hidalgo
8.	Juarez
9.	Diaz
10.	Morelos
11.	Zapata
16.	In which part do more than half of the people live? Why?
17.	What and where are the floating gardens?
18.	What is the chief food?
19.	What ancient form of transportation is still used in Mexico?
20.	What valuable mineral does Mexico lack?
21.	For what handicrafts are the Mexicans famous?
22.	Why is there so little transportation by boat?
23.	What are some of the recent changes in the Mexican diet?
24.	Name 5 important minerals found in Mexico.
35. Name Mexico’s principal trading partners.
VI. Fill in the blanks:
1........................ is the capital.
2.	The unit of money is called the
3.	In Mexico they speak the ...........
language.
4.	North America’s first university was
5.	Tenochtitlan, built in 1325, is the city
of ....................... today.
6.	Yucatan was discovered by
7.	A Mexican celebration is called a
8.	The oldest city in North America is
9.	Climate in Mexico is determined by
10.	Henequen is ........................
11.........................................
is the hub of all air transportation.
12.	The Mayan people lived in ..........
13.	A good calender was perfected by the
14.	One of Mexico’s favorite sports is the
15.	Diego Rivera is a famous............
VII. Discussion Questions:
1.	Compare Mexico's past and present.
2.	Why do customs differ so greatly in different parts of Mexico?
3.	How did Spain influence Mexico? How did the U.S.?
4.	Why was the political life in Mexico
General Questions:		5. Why were the Spanish able to conquer	
1.	On what date is Independence Day celebrated in Mexico?	Mexico	so easily?
2.	Who is their national hero?	Look over these words and their meanings.	
3.	Name the two mountain chains.	It will make	reading about Mexico more
4.	Name the two peninsulas.	interesting.	
5.	From whom did Mexico derive its	aboriginal	primitive, native to the soil
	name?	accelerated	moved more quickly,
6.	How many states in Mexico?	adornment	beautified, bedecked
7.	In what mineral does Mexico lead the	aggregate	the sum, the total amount
	world?	alkalies	mineral matter found in
8.	Name 5 principal exports.		natural waters and in soils
9.	What are the colors of the Mexican	alluring	attracting, tempting
	flag?	aquatic	adapted to the water
10.	Name one famous artist.	antimony	silver white metallic
11.	Which volcano was discovered in 1943?		element
12.	In what year did Cortes conquer Mexico?	arcade	roofed passageway, series of arches
13.	In what year did it become free?	archeological	pertaining to relics and
14.	For how long may the president stay		remains
	in office?	basaltic	rock of dark color, column
15.	In what two zones is Mexico located?		structure
belfries	towers
benevolent	kindly, good, humane
bicameral	consisting of two branches or chambers
conquistador	a Spanish conqueror of America
contour	outline
cordage	amount of wood on hand
crude	not refined, raw
defection	failure, desertion, abandonment
distinctive	standing apart, clear
diversified	different, varied
eroded	eaten, gnawed away, worn away
ferrous	pertaining to iron
frustrated	failed, defeated, hindered
haughty	proud, arrogant
henequen	sisal hemp
imperialistic	royal, noble, majestic
inaccessible	hard to reach
inconvertible	not changeable
indigenous	native, originating in a specified country
isolate	detach
luxuriance	great growth, fertile soil
migratory	roving, come and go at regular intervals
molybdenum	hard silverwhite, chromium group
momentum	quantity of motion, movement
monopoly	exclusive control
mosaics	inlaid stones forming pattern or picture
obscurity	dimness, darkness, unknown
patina	earthenware or metal bowl, rust
pharmaceutical	relating to a druggist
polychromatic	containing more than atom of chromium
porphyry	rock containing crystal or quartz
predecessors	those who have gone before
prevalence	predominant, prevailing
processed	treated
prodigious	enormous, extraordinary
refractories	disobedient, resisting
reminiscent	recallign, dwelling upon the past
rural	country
serenity	peaceful, calmness
sheer	thin and fine, absolute
sisal	fiber of several plants of Mexico
spectacularly	grand display
sophisticated	misled, artificial
stagnant	standing still, sluggish
stifled	concealed, suppressed
stoic	severe, indifferent to pleasure or pain
stolid	dull, expressing no feeling
strata	layers, thickness of rock
stupendous	immense, of great size
tapers	lessens, gradually, grows small
tenacity	sticky, unyielding
traceries	ornamental stonework
unsurpassed	unbeatable
urban	pertaining to a city
urbanization	make certified
vanadium	metallic element used to increase strength
venerable	look upon with honor
vested	completed, held by someone
wrought	worked into shape