Page 2
World Airwave Teacher
STUDY UNIT
NEW YORK
LOS ANGELES
NEW ORLEANS
HOUSTON NUEVO LAREDO J
BROWNSVILLE
NTERREY
TAMPICO
ERIDA
MEXIC
VERACRU
MIAMI
VANA
2514 Miles—xiA

ACAPULCO
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO MEXICO
The “gateway” cities from which we may depart from the United- States for our Clipper trip to Mexico are Los Angeles, Nuevo Laredo, Houston, New Orleans and Miami. Also, there is an air service nonstop from New York City to Mexico. Examples of flight times are: Los Angeles, 514 hours, from Houston 314 hours.
For our present imaginary journey — let’s take the route from Miami, which will give us a flight to Havana on Pan American, then a connecting flight via Merida to Mexico City on CMA — Compania Mexicana de Aviacion — one hour to Havana, then four to Mexico City.
So, we’ll call a travel agent, or a Pan American office, and request reservations for this flight — and get information about preparation we must make for this visit to Mexico.
First, we’ll need documentary proof of citizenship. A passport will serve this purpose, but a birth certificate or other evidence is satisfactory for travel to Mexico. However, it is necessary to get a Tourist Card, obtainable from any Mexican Consulate or Tourist Commission Office, and the card permits a stay of six months in Mexico. It costs $3.00. It is necessary also to carry a vaccination certificate.
Mexico has no restrictions regarding the importation or exportation of money, except that gold coins may not be brought in or taken out, and this restriction applies even if the gold coin is in the form of jewelry, so leave any such jewelry at home!
How about wardrobe?
For Merida, in Yucatan, we’ll want light weight summer clothes, including such items as sport shirts and sun dresses. For Mexico City — such clothing as is worn in spring or fall in New England and the
Middle West. A top coat will be wanted for evenings in Mexico City.
We must bear in mind that our free baggage allowance — first class — will be 30 kilos, which is 66 pounds, and if we travel tourist class, the allowance will be 20 kilos or 44 pounds. This is ample for a normal outfit of clothing, toilet articles, camera and incidentals — and experienced travellers find that carrying much more baggage than the standard allowances permit will not only result in charges for excess baggage but also adds to the problem of luggage at airports and hotels.
A third prerequisite is indoctrination, in other words, learning as much about Mexico as possible before going there.
This ideally would include learning to use the Spanish language. However, this takes time, and if there is not sufficient time it is not a cause for concern, for it is usual for Mexican people to be bi-lingual.
Another part of indoctrination is imperative, and that part is a basic knowledge of Mexico’s way of life, customs and courtesies, achievements in literature and art, Mexican history, geography, industry and agriculture.
When we’ve taken the steps outlined above we’re ready for our trip
Departure is from Miami International Airport, formerly called the 36th Street Airport, one of the world’s great international air terminals.
C.hecking in for our flight out of Miami involves somewhat more time and paper work than a flight wholly within the United States, since the agent at the counter must check through our documents for international travel. But he is experienced and works quickly and in a few minutes is handing back the ticket with baggage
tag attached and with a numbered coupon indicating seat assignment. The flight is announced, we pass through the gate across the ramp and board our Clipper and find our assigned space.
“Fasten Seat Belt — No Smoking” says an electrically lighted sign. We follow directions, settle back comfortably and wait. The door is closed now, the engines roar into action — we’re moving on the ground to the end of the runway.
A pause here while the crew checks everything and gets clearance by radio from the control tower, and we start moving again. Faster this time. We’re airborne, circling the airport, heading out over the ocean for the one hour flight to Cuba.
Landing at Bradley Airport, Havana we have a short wait in the terminal, then board the CMA plane to continue our journey. This one takes us across Cuba, over the water again, then across part of the Yucatan Peninsula to the Internacional Airport at Merida. We might leave the airplane here, enter Mexico officially and have several days to visit the Mayan country. But this time, we’ll go aboard the aircraft again when it has been refueled and complete our journey to Central Airport at Mexico City.
Once again we see a big and busy international airport, and are impressed not so much by how it differs from others we have seen, but how much they resemble each other. We have to check through Public Health, Immigration and Customs, but this has been arranged for in a routine manner, and within twenty minutes we are off by taxi cab to the hotel in Mexico City which will be headquarters for our exploration of this fascinating country.