., . : ,
J;
* f7f t ;,■ " 'J"
liïllllwe® . » «
:
■
I
: ' ■ ? .
illISKllSSI
■' • '
		
wm

Pan American
World Afßmrs Teacher
. •
■Hs
................
ilsBiilill®
afiflÉÎttHi
June 1957
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XIII No. 5
ROUND SOUTH AMERICA
Many educational travel organizers have told me they want to start South American travel programs or to expand those they now have. And we know that educational authorities in the Americas to the South will welcome such. So I thought a report on this subject would be useful, and I decided to get the data for it first hand.*
This was my route: New York, Nassau, Miami, Mexico, Guatemala, Bogota, Quito, Lima, Santiago, Buenos Aires, Montevideo, Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Caracas, New York. Air line mileage 14,303.
I left New York the last day of March, and flew on the new Pan American service to Nassau — now 3i/2 hours from Idlewild by Douglas DC-7B Clipper. I had an overnight visit in that charming vacation spot, living it up in the British Colonial Hotel
—	then flew over to Miami next morning for a briefing session with the people in PAA’s Latin American Division headquarters.
Next flight was Miami to Havana on a PAA Super-6 Clipper, connecting with Compania Mexicana de Aviacion’s (CMA) daily flight to Mexico City where I was to have my first series of interviews. There are several other routes to Mexico City, and mine was by no means the most direct or fastest. But it was the one which best served my purpose. Later we expect to have a New York-Mexico non-stop service
—	we’ve applied for the certificate and the CAB examiner has recommended approval.
In thirty-five days I visited ten cities in nine Latin American republics, had forty-eight interviews with educators, and collected information from fifty or more Pan American traffic and public relations people.
*This article is condensed from a report to educational travel organizers on educational travel possibilities in South America. Copies of the report are available, and there is no charge. Ask for “ ’Round South America, a Report to Educational Travel Organizers.”
r .a; V'cL s
By George Gardner
Some of the interviews turned out to be lengthy, simply because the process was so pleasant, but it boiled down to: “What’s available in your country for teachers and students who sincerely want to learn, who have programs of types which qualify for academic credit, who may want formal college courses, seminars or workshops, or in other cases simply want to meet local educators and/or students and talk to them? Who can make such arrangements?”
I reversed the process, too, I asked how our institutions in the United States could be of help to their teachers and students who come to visit us in the United States.
Altogether it was a quick fact-finding trip — an effort to build up in my office a fund of information which I hope will be useful to those who organize educational tours.
MEXICO
The opportunities for purposeful travel are myriad — the channels of communication are wide open and have been used for years. Through the State Department, the Division of Intellectual Cooperation of Mexico’s Ministry of Education and the National University of Mexico the organizers can get about what they want, whether a program for an afternoon or a college level course.
GUATEMALA Guatemala City
In Guatemala there is some interesting and significant development work going on in elementary education — The comparative education travel groups especially will want to go into this.
Guatemala’s own educational authorities, The Education Division of U.S.A.’s ICA, San Carlos University and the American School are cooperating on this work and the American School, Robert B. McVean, Principal is one of the laboratory schools.
V S'7, f C !cxe/' c{)
The laboratory work of the American School is centered upon (1) teaching materials, especially for reading, (2) programs of study; (3) tests, both teacher-made and standardized; (4) teacher training.
There are a number of other pilot operations in progress or planned in the regular Guatemala schools — including both rural and urban areas. A home economics unit in Guatemala City had 60 girl students last year — plan for 90 next year. There is an industrial arts unit in Guatemala City. In the rural program a typical one is for a community where a new industry is to be established and people are in training for employment in the industry. For example, one is geared to the needs of a rural community where cement blocks are manufactured.
Outstanding United States and Guatemala teachers are carrying on the projects starting with well defined objectives and proceeding with considerable freedom of action — and it looks like results will be very interesting.
Arrangements for educational type visits may be arranged through the Embassy — San Carlos University or both.
San Carlos has a summer session — it starts in July — the Rector suggested that summer courses in the humanities wotdd offer the best choice for students planning to enroll for the summer.
Antigua
For a week-end trip I selected Antigua, the old capital of Guatemala, and when I discovered Antigua was only the second capital, and that the very first was at Ciudad Vieja, only 5 kilometers away, I went there too.
For the Antigua trip I went by bus — a very small one with a very large load of passengers.
(Continued on page T-2)