Page 5
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
MEXICO
Juan Diego and called him “my son.” We shall pick up at random a few items which make up the polychromatic Mexican life.
Much of Mexican music, for instance, has a plaintive note as if the Mexicans were crying for something they had not yet attained. The corrido is a ballad typical of Mexico. It is the offspring of the Spanish romance with the Mexican touch. In the corrido there is a repetition of the same musical phrase, but the lyrics are exciting. They tell of the adventures of heroes and bandits, of revolutions, of love tragedies, or what happens to disobedient sons. There are also revolutionary songs which remain as fresh as when they were first composed. “Adelita” and “La Cucaracha” date from the 1910-1920 social revolution. Soldiers sang them, though the songs had no connection with the war.
There are lovely songs for serenading. Serenades are usually organized by several friends who practice the songs together and sing them at the homes of their respective girl friends. Those who cannot themselves sing, hire professional singers. In her “Treasury of Mexican Folkways”, Miss Frances Toor tells us an interesting story. “A rich man in Guadalajara,” she writes, “once created a sensation by hiring the entire Russian Cossack Chorus, giving concerts there, to serenade his love.”
Mexican dances are also lovely to look at. Practically all the folk dances are based on the jarabes. Jarabe means a syrup or sweet drink in Spanish. The Jarabe Tapatio is the national folk dance. It consists of nine gay, captivating melodies and dance figures; the dancers meeting and moving around each other but always some distant apart. They dance with heel and toe, beating a strong rhythm to the music. The entire dance lasts about ten minutes. At the end comes “The Dove,” during which the man follows the girl as she dances around the broad brim of his sombrero. As she stoops to pick it up, he passes his right leg over her. They finish by facing the audience, dancing back and forth to the “Diana,” the man’s arm around the girl. She wears the China Poblana costume and the man that of the Charro.
And the tortillas? When we think of Mexican food the first thing that comes to our mind is tortillas. They are the most prominent of corn foods, the bread of the Indians for many centuries. They are made of the corn kernels, cooked slightly and soaked over night in lime water; then they are ground into a paste. Tortillas are patted with both hands to the desired size and thickness and immediately baked. Corn paste is the base for many other foods besides tortillas. Tamales, for instance, which are about the size and shape of a small banana, either plain or filled with beans or meats, flavored with chile or sweetened and steamed in corn husks or in banana leaves. All Mexicans eat tortillas. Of the complicated corn foods the famous ones are the tacos — beans, cheese or meats, wrapped in tortillas, seasoned with chile and fried; and enchiladas, which are tacos covered with chile sauce to which sour cream is often added. Tortillas fried crisp are called tostados — delicious all.
Now if one thinks of Mexican costumes many words come to his mind which re-
quire a little explanation. The rebozo or shawl, for instance, is used by the women to cover their heads when they go to church. It has the same importance to the native woman as the sarape to the man. It is her hat and coat; serves as a cradle for the baby on her back and as a blanket when it is lying beside her. It may be used as a market basket, and if twisted on her head, as a stand for a water jar. As rebozos are used principally by the poor, nearly all are of ordinary cotton thread and conservative colors — dark blues, greys, brown, all with fine white pin-point designs. Generally the Mexican Indian woman wears an old-fashioned calico dress — a full skirt reaching to the ankles or sweeping the ground, with or without flounces, wrist plain or with yoke. Some use a sleeveless shirt of white cotton, embroidered with silk thread or beads.
Men and boys from the countryside and small towns always wear palm leaf handsome sombreros of all sizes and shapes, each region having its own styles. Only in a few villages of Oaxaca are felt hats worn. The men’s overcoat is the sarape or blanket of homespun wool, pure or mixed, of different sizes, colors and designs in every village. Sarapes or blankets are among the showiest and most useful of the hand-woven objects. They are worn by men and boys, only, for whom they serve as overcoats, for adornment, as wedding cloaks, and in the end for shrouds. In Peru the Indians call them ponchos. At night they are used for covers and in the daytime to spread things on in the market place; also to stretch over poles for shelter from the sun or rain. In New York a sarape looks beautiful over a couch.
The Heart of the Country
Mexico City is the heart of the Republic. All roads lead to Mexico, distances throughout the country are figured from theZocalo, the historic site where once stood the resplendent palace of Montezuma, the great Aztec emperor. Mexico is not only the
center of government but also of industry, the arts, and religion. It is a beautiful and thrilling capital. It is larger than Madrid, Barcelona and, with the exception of Buenos Aires, all other cities where Spanish is spoken. The city, set in a wide valley 7,439 feet above sea level, is dominated on clear days by its stupendous volcanoes, Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl, on dull days by the smoky cloud of its industrial plants.
Downtown street traffic, both cars and walkers, moves smartly and, without the Spanish signs and names, you would think you were in a big American metropolis. Shops display the latest Paris and New York fashions. One finds the same imposing banks, enticing restaurants, neon-signed cocktail bars, elegant department stores, jewelry shops, cigar stores and others that offer their wears in Chicago, Los Angeles or New York.
Mexico has one of the most beautiful avenues in the world — the tree-bordered Paseo de la Reforma, which runs through the finest part of the capital to Chapultepec Park. Along La Reforma Mexicans stroll, or ride in latest model cars. This is particularly so during the late afternoon when the sunset is reflected on the mountain peaks and the air is soft and inviting. La Reforma means to the visitor, flower stands whose roses, lilies, carnations, hyacinths, orchids and gardenias splash color around to make more lovely the day.
Three streets lead westward from the Zocalo: 16 de Septiembre, 5 de Mayo, and Francisco Madero. All these avenues reflect the wealth, energy, and skills of the Spanish of colonial times and of the Mexicans of today. Tall buildings are built or being rebuilt everywhere, defiant evidence of the city’s determination to be a modern metropolis the equal of any, and its disregard of its own peculiarities, for Mexico is set on sand and heavy buildings are sinking. Engineers believe, however, that successful means will be found to solve the problem.
The Paseo de la Reforma enters Chapul-
Acapulco, Mexico, terrace showing view of the Pacific Ocean.