Page 3
BY FLYING CUPPER TO
_________MEXICO__________
M exico—Our Neighbor
South of the United States there is a fascinating country — Mexico. Before Columbus discovered America, ancient Mexico saw great civilizations rise and fall. It was a prosperous Spanish colony for almost a century before the Pilgrims arrived in North America. Generally, Mexico is a rugged country. Big mountains descend from its high plateaus to the shores of tropical seas, deserts give way to thick jungles. Tiny villages, still enjoying the easy rhythm of pre-Spaniard times, and little towns reminiscent of colonial days can be found today near cities that are modern as any on the American continent.
Today most Americans are acquainted with this progressive country. Mexico’s multiple achievements are known practically by all. Now visitors are pouring by the thousands across the border in search of pleasure, knowledge, music, art and excitement. And no one is disappointed. For Mexico offers comfort in beautiful surroundings, but it has not done away with old customs and traditions. Magnificent hotels and elegant resorts can compete favorably with any in the world. Renowned universities have given to the Spanish world, men of great reputation, essayists like Alfonso Reyes and novelists like Mariano Azuela. Painters like Orozco and Rivera, composers like Carlos Chavez, comedians such as Cantinflas, all celebrated in their fields, have left a distinctive mark in the world of art.
For sheer loveliness there is Xochimilco; its soft enchantment is genuine. The name means Place of Flowers, and their abundance dominates the whole scene — millions of flowers, gardenias and carnations in all their beauty. A boat, named Lolita or Juanita, solidly wrought in flowers, will take you on a canal trip while marimba bands floating by and beside you fill the air with Mexican music. For warm bathing in the blue Pacific Ocean there is Acapulco; it is as beautiful as any of the most favored resorts in the old world. Its water temperature is amazingly even and one needs look for no storms or tempests; shadows never disturb the serenity of Acapulco. One can fly there in one hour from the capital. This sophisticated resort with fifty hotels of unsurpassed elegance has a long history. In 1541 Pedro de Alvarado, formerly Cortes aid-de-camp built a fleet for the conquest of the Philippines, and before the end of the century galleons were putting in regularly with their cargoes of oriental silks and spices. Acapulco, however, has kept, behind the glitter of wealth, much of the character of a small tropical port, and one can see streets with shuttered balconies and places selling the wonders of the sea: sea-shells and star fish, tortoiseshell combs and boxes, and reptile skins from the jungle. There is one aquatic sport that a visitor seldom forgets. Beach boys at the Hotel Mirador perform an extraordinary feat of diving 125 feet from a cliff into a pool that is deep enough for
by Enrique Portes
only a split second when the wave is high — quite a skill.
There is Cuernavaca, the capital of the State of Morelos, whose history is as romantic as its present appearance. Because of its altitude — 3,000 feet lower than Mexico City —its climate is semi-tropical and its floral luxuriance unsurpassed. Cuernavaca means “Cow’s Horn”, but this was simply the conquistadors’ lazy way of saying Cuauhnahuac, the Indians’ word for “Beside the Woods.” Cortes loved it and built here his palace in the country. Ambassadors have loved it too, including Dwight Morrow, who made it his summer home. The Cortes Palace, now used for the State of Morelos legislative and executive offices, is the center of the city. It is known especially for its upper arcade with a fine view of Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl and the frescos that Ambassador Morrow commissioned Diego Rivera to paint as a gift to the people of Cuernavaca. The theme is Mexico’s history from the Conquest to the present — Cortes, La Malinche, Morelos, Zapata, all and every one will give you a historical narrative of unusual interest.
And there is the Paricutin, Mexico’s big Baby, which has received since it was born more world publicity than any other in history. Paricutin is the only volcano born since science has reached an advanced stage where every cry, and every tremor of the young hellion can be heard, watched and measured with accuracy. Paricutin broke spectacularly into the news in February of 1943 when this new volcano pushed through the quiet cornfield of one Dionisio Pulido. Father and son and even the stolid ox broke and ran, as from the devil. News reached the outside world. Within a matter of hours the wisp was a column of ash-dust and
within a day there was a true volcanic cone thirty or forty feet high. A week later it was five times as high and a month later fifteen times as high. The volcano has grown and grown, forming a huge crater and cone, and rivers of lava have not only buried unlucky Pulido’s cornfield but have forced the evacuation of Paricutin village, three miles away. Its fiery mouth now is 1,500 feet high.
And there is Yucatan, that strange peninsula of ancient monuments where a remarkable people — the Mayans — achieved perhaps the highest civilization in pre-Conquest America. Long before the arrival of the Spaniards, the ruins of many splendid centers of ancient Mayan civilization were overgrown with tangled underbrush and jungle. Some sites no white man had ever seen. Eventually they were discovered and a whole lost era began to unfold. The largest and finest of archeologial sites yet found in Yucatan is Chichen-Itzi. Its great stone temples and pyramids, ball court and observatory, palace and parade grounds extend over an area of six square miles. Considered as a group, the dazzling white structures of Chiclien-Itzi rising in splendor from the green jungle plain, are an astonishing spectacle indeed.
Mexico is all these things combined and more — a people advancing definitely toward progress and permanent peace.
Fifth Largest Republic
Mexico is an old nation and a big one, too. It is the fifth largest among the American Republics, and it is larger than the combined areas of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California, in other words, about a quarter of the area of continental United States. It is a Federal Republic,
Typical kitchen, Taxco, Mexico, showing beautiful tile and pottery.