BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
MEXICO
Page 9
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Mexico called a
country of contrasts?
A.	Reasons for Selection:
1.	A vacation trip to Mexico has now come within the reach of many more people.
2.	We are naturally curious about a land so close to the United States and so different in many respects.
3.	News items about Mexico are numerous and usually of great interest to us.
4.	Much of the history of Mexico is closely linked to the history of the United States.
5.	So much has been written on Mexico that many students will have read some interesting facts and want to find out more.
5.	Students are interested in old civilizations and a study of Mexico will afford an opportunity to learn more about them.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Four weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	A story about a visit to the land of the Mayas would lead to a desire to find out more.
2.	A report by a student on his trip or his family’s trip to Mexico would make a good beginning.
3.	The study of the Mexican War; the story of the Alamo; would arouse interest.
4.	Any current news item on Mexico could be used to start the class thinking about this country.
5.	A book from the Bibliography could be used.
6.	A suggested movie or strip film will always help to create interest.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why is the history of Mexico and that of the United States so closely linked?
2.	What are the trade relations between the United States and Mexico?
3.	Which great Mexican heroes compare to some of the heroes of the United States?
4.	What has Mexico contributed to the culture of the world?
5.	What is Mexico’s position in the world of today?
6.	How has aviation made changes in Mexico?
7.	What can we find out about Mexico’s varied cultures?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies: location; elevation and climate, half in temperate zone and half in torrid zone; Sierra Mad re mountains; volcanic peaks, Orizaba, Ixt^ccuhuatl, Popocatepetl, Paricutin; peninsulas of Yucatan and Baja California; Capital and oldest city in North America, Mexico City; cities of Xochimilco, Guadalajara, Puebla, Merida, Vera Cruz, Tampico, Oaxaca, Cuernavaca, Taxco, Monterrey, Acapulco; flag, green for unity, white for religion, red for independence; a re-
public consisting of 29 states; 2 territories, and a federal district; principal crop, corn; rice, beans, sugar cane and chili; cacao; oil; first in silver, second in lead, third in zinc, fourth in mercury; growth of tourism; trade between United States and Mexico; Aztecs and Mayas; Cordoba, Grijalva, Cortez, Diaz, Hidalgo, Juarez, Morelos, Zapata, Aleman, Montezuma, all helped make History; President elected for 6 years, no re-election; senators and deputies; pesos, monetary unit; Rio Grande River; member of United Nations; mixture of races; National University, North America’s first; first book printed in Western hemisphere in 1539; oldest hospital in America; Act of Chapultepec.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue will be helpful. The list of Spanish words is also interesting. Which of these have become part of our own vocabulary?
b.	Literature: read some of the many books written about Mexico; Azuela, novelist; Reyes, essayist; Lizardi, delà Cruz, de Alarcon, Azuela.
c.	Oral Communication: telling a story about Mexico; asking questions of one who has been there; reading to the class about ancient civilization; answering questions; reporting information you have gathered.
d.	Written Communication: writing for more information; making outlines. to present the facts you have gathered; inviting speakers or other classes to share with you; reviewing a book; creating a play or pageant.
3.	Science: study of volcanoes, old and new, Paricutin recently discovered; high and low lands; Aztec calendar stone; XochZimilco, the “Floating gardens”; ancient ruins.
4.	Art: mural painting of Diego Rivera, Orozco, Siqueiros, one of greatest contributions; architecture and sculpture; silver and ceramic ware; tooled leather, glassware, pottery, basketry; pyramids; “city of churches”; recent death of Covarrubias, a modern artist; wood carving.
5.	Music: Corrido, narrative folk ballad; music is plaintive; Carlos Chavez, popular composer; Adelita and La Cu-caracha, familiar songs; mariachis, cowboy singers.
6.	Mathematics: peso, monetary unit, value in American money; flying time to Mexico; graphs showing mining development and trading facts in all exports and imports.
7.	Health: folk dances very popular; corn, main food; diet changing, more fresh vegetables, especially tomatoes; milk added to diet, pasteurization taking place; fish also being included; Mayas discovered curative value of penicillin, ate foods that acquired mold; no known stomach disorders or cases of heart disease among the
Mayas; changes in health standards throughout Mexico.
B.	Skills: with the wealth of material that is available on Mexico it will be very necessary to learn to organize, outline and stick to the point when reporting.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An appreciation of the ancient civilization of Mexico and what it has given to the world.
2.	An understanding of Mexico’s fight for freedom.
3.	An appreciation of the problems presented by varied cultures.
4.	An interest in the progress Mexico has made in recent years.
5.	An appreciation of the work of the Mexican heroes.
6.	A better understanding of what it means to be a good neighbor.
7.	An appreciation of all there is to learn about Mexico.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A.	Things to Do:
1.	Gather books and magazines with stories about Mexico.
2.	Collect and mount pictures of Mexico.
3.	Make a Spanish - English chart of words.
4.	Bring in articles made in Mexico to exhibit.
5.	Make a volcano and tell about Mexico’s volcanoes.
6.	Plan a Mexican fiesta. Have some Mexican food, make Mexican costumes, sing songs and do dances.
7.	Have someone who has been to Mexico speak to your class.
8.	Make a movie or slides of some of the famous places to visit.
9.	Arrange a trip by air to Mexico and highlight the places to be visited while in Mexico.
10.	Read some of the books listed in this issue.
11.	Plan a shopping tour in Mexico. What would you buy in various places? Make the money exchange.
12.	Keep a current Bulletin Board with news items on Mexico.
13.	Make replicas of some of the “ruins” in clay.
14.	Dress dolls in typical Mexican costumes and display them.
B.	Culmination:
1.	Mexican Fiesta Day! Invite the parents or faculty to a Mexican lunch. Dress in Mexican costumes. Do Mexican dances and songs at the Assembly for the rest of the school.
2.	Make a scrapbook of all you have gathered and learned about Mexico.
3.	Any of the items in V. - A. may be used as a culmination.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Books, pictures, magazines, travel folders, newspapers.
2.	Movies and strip films.
3.	Records.
4.	Realia.
5.	Personnel.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS: A study of Central American countries, as near neighbors of Mexico, and similar in many instances, should be of interest next.