World Airways Teacher
STUDY UNIT________________
Mexico Today
Economy and Trade By Lou A. Phillips
Page 6
tepee Park at the statue of Bolivar. Chapul-tepec Park is still shaded by majestic cedars of Montezuma’s time. One can explore these woods for hours and find new fountains and statues hidden in leafy coves around lakes. There is also Chapultepec Castle, built in 1783 for a viceroy’s bride. Today it is a museum of history.
As to churches and museums Mexico City is a treasure. The America’s largest Cathedral is impressive. The facade is a gray curtain of masonry and stone traceries of prodigious width. The Cathedral’s treasures form a dazzling total. Two palaces and a museum capture the interest of almost every visitor: the National Palace, the Palace of Fine Arts (Bellas Artes) , and the National Museum. In the National Palace are the famous murals by Rivera, but it reaches its peak of interest only once a year, at midnight of September 15. At that moment, the President of the Republic steps to the balcony, above which hangs the Liberty Bell, and personally utters the “Cry” (el Grito) . The Palace of Fine Arts is an excellent show piece and important to the culture of the nation it serves. It contains an opera house, a concert hall, a museum of popular arts, a gallery of paintings and several salons for exhibitions of art works. The National Museum houses an extraordinary collection of aboriginal treasures. It contains stone wonders dating from Maya, Toltec and Aztec times, though most of them have been removed and are displayed in Chapultepec Castle. Perhaps the greatest single relic of the museum is the 25-ton disk of basaltic porphyry which faces the main entrance. It is a Calendar Stone of the Aztecs and is not only a work of art but a marvel of astronomical science. It is twelve feet in diameter and three feet in thickness. Other fine treasures are the large statues of Quetzalcoatl and Huitzilopochtli. The first was a benign deity, but the second was the crudest ever imagined by human worshippers. The Sacrificial Stone in the museum makes it all too real.
Mexico is an exciting city, a great capital, a happy combination of what is best in the world.
During the last few years Mexico has become the Mecca for Americans. They go there because there is something really different in Mexico, not only temples and pyramids, palaces and cathedrals, museums and resorts but also a fine people whose music, courtesy and friendliness charm the visitor.
Other Places to Return
There are many other cities in Mexico which little by little are becoming great attractions for the visitor. Guadalajara, for instance, with a population of about 400,000 today, has not made big headlines lately, but it has enjoyed steady, almost unbroken growth ever since it was founded back in 1530. It is a prosperous business community, to the Tapados, as the people of Guadalajara call themselves. But they know, too, the business of living. Tapados throng the streets during the early evening, stroll around the parks and plazas, and chat with friends in the many cafés. Here, mariachis, or cowboy singers, sing the most harmonious of Mexican folk songs. Guadalajara is one of the oldest of Spanish colonial cities.
In April 1519, the Spanish conquistador, Hernan Cortes landed on Mexican soil. By June 1521 he had conquered a whole civilization and added it to the Spanish crown. At first the Spaniards embarked on a program of reconstruction that brought churches, monasteries and schools to the remote corners of Nueva España. A new Mexican capital was built on the site of the Aztec capital. The old Aztec canals were filled in to make cobblestone streets and new churches and buildings were erected. Tenochtitlan became Mexico City.
Most of Mexico’s mineral wealth was sent back to Spain and soon the reconstruction program lost its momentum. Mexico’s economy became stagnant, as all domestic enterprise was stifled in order to protect Spanish industry from any competition. In 1810 a parish priest, Father Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla, proclaimed that Mexico should be a free and independent nation. Although he was eventually killed by Spanish troops others carried on the War of Independence to ultimate success in 1821. The next century was not easy for the new nation but by 1910 through the help of two benevolent dictatorships under Benito Juarez and Por-firio Diaz, political and economic order was finally established. Foreign capital was attracted for investment in railroads, shipping and industry but labor and land reforms desired by the people were not forthcoming. Betwen 1910 and 1924 the people struggled to break up the feudal estates (haciendas) and obtain better working conditions in mines, oil fields and factories. In 1917 a new Constitution was adopted and in 1923 the United States resumed formal diplomatic relations with Mexico which had been broken during the last years of strife.
Since 1923 the general policy of the Mexican Government has been to raise wages as fast as the economy can support it, encourage new industry through reasonable taxation and allow complete freedom of press and speech.
In recent decades Mexico’s population has been growing rapidly, almost entirely from natural increase since immigration is negligible. The 1950 Census showed a population of 25.8 million compared with 19.7 million in 1940 and 16.6 million in 1930. Internal shifts in population are also very significant. People have been moving away from the areas where the traditional agricultural economy prevails towards the seven largest cities, the northern border area, and the territory of Quintana Roo. This shift reflects the transition of many workers from agriculture to industry and trade as well as a movement within agricultural areas to the newest irrigated zones. In 1955, almost 43% of the population was urban and 57% rural compared with 1930 when 33i/2% was urban and 66i/2% was rural. The Mexican people fall roughly into three racial groups. About 10% are pure European, usually of Spanish descent; 75% are mestizo, a blend of white and Indian; and 15% are pure Indian, belonging to 56 groups, each with its own
language, — the descendants of the population that inhabited Mexico before the Spanish Conquest.
Mexico’s national income is rising and its per capita income is increasing. In 1953 national income was 51,000 million pesos ($210 per capita) compared with 37,816 million pesos in 1950 and 5,737 million pesos in 1939. The increase which appears to exist in real per capita income since 1939 is not as big as it seems however, as much of the increased income was in the form of commercial and industrial profits from which large sectors of the people apparently derived little benefit. However, standards of living for industrial workers and agricultural workers in the new agricultural regions are well above those in older unimproved farming areas. This is due to the fact that the prevalence of primitive farming techniques and eroded lands in the older areas results in low yields. One of the important results of the movement of migratory labor to the United States as seasonal workers on cotton, fruit, vegetable and sugar beet farms as well as industry, is that returning braceros bring back (in addition to cash savings) new ideas regarding methods, machines and modes of living which are also contributing to changing agricultural and marketing systems.
The wide variety of geographic conditions arising from Mexico’s location partly in the temperate and partly in the tropical zones, combined with variations in altitude, enables the country to produce crops ranging from wheat to bananas. 58% of the people are engaged in agricultural and related occupations. Since 1939 the nation’s harvested area has increased 40% and the volume of production has virtually doubled. The relatively greater gains in production occurred primarily as the result of greater productivity of new land, both irrigated and unirrigated, and shifts in crops, and secondarily because of improvement in agricultural practices. Particularly important was the decline in the total percentage of land devoted to corn, which is grown generally by primitive methods and in eroded soil, and the expansion of acreage in cotton, oilseeds, tomatoes and other crops produced under more favorable conditions than in earlier years.
Corn is still the principal crop grown accounting for about 66% of the total harvested area of the country. Although it has declined in relative importance, acreage and output have increased considerably in absolute terms. About two-fifths of the bean (frijol) crop is planted along with corn but the area devoted to beans separately is very large and widely distributed. Mexico has long been on an import basis for wheat and the level of imports has risen considerably over the last decade as urbanization has been accelerated and the purchasing power of wheat consuming classes has risen. However expansion of wheat production as a result of plantings in irrigated districts and the introduction of improved varieties has