Pa\ America\
Page T-2	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
C/Mn American
World Airways Teacher ^
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1957, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(■Continued from page T-l)
Before we were out of town we passed a funeral — the honored deceased borne in a handsomely carved mahogany bier on the shoulders of six pallbearers. The mourners walked along behind. Earlier I had been told by Porras that a brand new business enterprise in Guatemala is a mortuary establishment now offering complete package service, including pallbearers. Historically it has been the custom of Guatemalans to purchase a casket and then make all the other arrangements on a do-it-yourself basis. I didn’t have Porras with me on the bus to advise which type this was — my guess is that it was the historical type.
At the outskirts we drove past the plumber — or perhaps he was another do-it-yourself addict. I could be sure the plumbing trade was involved because he had a W.C. lashed to the rack over the back wheel of his bike ... A little farther on, one of the passengers stopped the bus, and disembarked. The driver waited while our friend ran across the road, through traffic, accosted a workman digging a trench, handed him something (repayment of a loan?) and then ducked through traffic again to return to the bus.
So it went. At the Antigua bus terminal I was the center of attention, because I looked just like a tourist, which, of course, I was. Out of the group of well-wishers, I selected the one who seemed to speak the best English. Ramon, he’s called. He walked me to the Hotel Pasado Belem, carrying my overnight bag, and as we walked we negotiated an arrangement for after lunch to walk through the ruins and other points of interest and then to drive to Ciudad Vieja the original capital (three pesos for the guide service, five pesos for the car.)
The ruins in Antigua are chiefly churches, monasteries and convents or what’s left of them. There are 47, but I settled for three — plus the rebuilt Palace, plus the building which originally housed the Universidad de San Carlos de Guatemala (formerly at Antigua, now in Guatemala City). The latter now is a museum, and a leading feature is a set of murals illustrating graduation from college in the early days of San Carlos. The candidate is shown at his oral examinations, passing successfully, and then riding in triumph through the city streets on the back of a white horse. The restored palace, also a museum and housing a library as well, is notable for its displays of ancient weapons, the prison dungeons, and the court room, complete with a raised
stage for members of the court, and iron rings in the walls which held the prisoners securely while they waited to hear the fate allotted to them by the court.
Vieja, the original capital, is well supplied with ruins too. A handsome Latin-type cathedral has been largely restored and there is a fair sized population of farmers and tradesmen.
The ruins so prevalent in Vieja and Antigua are mute evidence of Guatemala’s troubles with erupting volcanoes and earthquakes.
Vieja was founded by the original Conqueror of Guatemala — Don Pedro de Alvarado. When it was destroyed by earthquake and flood the capital was moved to Antigua, which prospered and which in the middle of the 18th century had a population of 70,000, — but in 1773 there was a disastrous earthquake and the capital was moved again to Guatemala City.
The Hotel Posada Belem has been built in one of the ruins — that of the monastery of the Church of Belem. It was a large monastery and some of the original walls still enclose the beautiful tropical gardens
—	other walls form parts of the structure of the present hotel — which accommodates 50 guests only. It was a welcome period of relaxation in a mild and comfortable climate.
EN ROUTE-GUATEMALA CITY-BOGOTA
I flew on PAA Flight 501 — the daily Rainbow (Tourist) Service, through Mexico and Central America. Since Rainbow service is usually the choice for educational tours, a few comments might be useful.
The equipment consists of Super 6 Clippers — (Douglas DC-6B), with seating two on the left, three on the right — there is ample knee room, — two cabin attendants, — meals served at no extra charge at meal times — snacks in between, — bar service is provided (75^ for a highball or cocktail), — everything comfortable, convenient, but super luxuries omitted.
It is not necessarily typical of Rainbow Service to make frequent stops (witness Transatlantic, Transpacific, San Francisco-Los Angeles non-stop to Guatemala and so-on), but 501 is hop, skip and jump from Guatemala to Panama — that is to say the flights are 40 minutes to an hour and a half and the stops are San Salvador, Tegucigalpa, Managua, San Jose and Tocumen, which is the airport serving Panama City and Balboa.
I enjoyed this step by step progression
—	got to see all the airports, and met new traveling companions on each new flight. Forgive me if I’m trite, but you do meet interesting people!
I think we’ve developed a tradition of flight service on these tourist-fare Rainbow flights — a service which takes care of the necessities promptly and efficiently with a minimum of fuss and feathers. If you have yet to experience it, take my word for it you’ll like everything about it — especially the saving in cost as compared with President (First Class). On a round trip N.Y.C.
—	Buenos Aires — N.Y.C. the difference is
$121.20.
The special itinerary I followed put me into Panama City for an overnight stop
at the Hotel El Panama (a beauty) and I went on to Bogota early Monday morning at 6:00 AM on our affiliated air line COPA (Compañía Panameña de Aviación). You won’t have to go so early in the morning — there are later flights. I wanted all day Monday in Bogota and it was worth the early rising.
COLOMBIA
My most satisfactory interview in Colombia was with Señora Josefina Valencia, who is Secretario de Educación. It was the shortest too, because Sra. Valencia had been in conference with the President all afternoon and we had to wait for her until 6:00 PM. Furthermore, it had to be done for me in Spanish by my companion, whom I had briefed in advance.
La Señora had the idea before my friend was half way through his explanation. Her eyes sparkled with pleasure and she said, in effect “Let us know what your people want and I personally will see that they get it — anywhere in Colombia — in the hills or the llanos, the cities or the country.” She wants Colombian teachers and students to visit the USA more than they do now. There actually is less educational travel from Colombia to the United States currently than in the past, but strictly because of dollar shortages. As this situation improves, we may be asking some of you to set up programs for Sra. Valencia.
Well, you should realize that Colombia is served by our PAA affiliate AVIANCA (Aerovías Nacionales de Colombia, S.A.). PAA operates to Barranquilla — Panagra to Cali. For your flight to the capital, you’ll use AVIANCA - or COPA, as I did going in from Panama City.
To boil it all down — the best prospect I uncovered for cooperation on educational travel, in addition to the Ministry of Education, is La Universidad de Los Andes. Founded in 1947, when Mario Laserna, then a Colombian student of Mathematics at Columbia University conceived the idea of a university which “would offer Colombians those privileges in education which he and his friends had enjoyed during their studies abroad,” Los Andes has courses of study in engineering, architecture, economics and liberal arts are so arranged as to facilitate further study in the United States. In the case of engineering, this plan is on a formally arranged basis, for it is contemplated that engineering students will take their Junior and Senior years in the United States at the University of Illinois, Pittsburgh or Texas. In other departments, students may complete their work at Los Andes, or transfer to the U.S., as they prefer.
At Los Andes and at the National University it was felt that special programs, during summer months, could be undertaken only after this rescheduling of the academic term had been accomplished.
Ecuador
Quito is relaxed, friendly, colorful and blessed with a comfortable climate the year round. Reminded me of San Francisco in many ways. Despite being located almost on the equator, temperature ranges around 55° the year round because of the altitude.
(Continued on page T-3)