Page 4
made up of 29 States, two territories, and a Federal District, for its capital. Mexico’s dramatic geography exerts a powerful influence on its way of life. Its mountains tend to isolate one valley from another. The coastline is long and generally warm.
Mexico’s history properly starts in the plateau where two-thirds of the country’s 31,000,000 inhabitants live in only one-sixth of the total area. It is in the high plateau where the first Indians found their promised land, some thousand years B.C. Later came the Mayans. In southeastern Mexico, between 300 B.C. and A.D. 600, they had perfected a calendar more accurate than any in use in Europe at the time. They had stone tools used in architecture and carving. Other native civilizations were developing at the same time, including the Toltec, the Zapotec, the Mixtec, and the Olmec, culminating in the great Aztecs. The Aztecs, the final conquerors of the plateau civilizations, settled down in a swamp area near the heart of the Valley of Mexico. It was here where they saw, according to tradition, an eagle perched on a cactus plant with a snake in its beak. This incidentally is symbolized on the modern Mexican flag.
The Aztecs founded the city of Tenoch-titlan which centuries later became the capital of the conquerors’ Nueva España. With the aid of prisoners of war, the Aztecs dug canals, draining the swamps and using the fill for the foundations of a splendid new city of white-walled buildings, temples and palaces. It was a true Venice of the New World because it was rich, haughty, imperialistic, and because its streets were canals which centuries later were filled in with the demolished Aztec structures when it became the capital of New Spain. Though they had wheeled toys, the Aztecs never worked out the practical use of the wheel. Having no knowledge of the keystone arch, their bridges were limited to the span of single stones laid on piers. The Aztecs, however, extended a network of foot-trails throughout their vast domain. Relay runners brought fresh fruit and fish from the tropical lowlands and snow from the mountain tops to grace the banquet tables and chill their drinks.
Then runners carried messages from the coast to the Aztec Emperor, Montezuma II, about the arrival of the white man—Cortes. The Spanish conquistador landed with a small force of 500 foot soldiers and 20 horsemen, which the excited runners described as “huge men with four feet”, and artillery “that spoke lightning and thunder.” That was in April 1519. By August 1521, Cortes had conquered a whole civilization, and had added the Aztec empire to the Spanish crown. The task was difficult, cruel, but for sheer bravado and reckless courage, the Spanish conquest of Mexico has never been equalled in history. Cortes burned his ships to prevent retreat or defection, captured the Aztec capital, had his great moments of tragedy — his noche triste — and finally, after extending his empire to the whole of Mexico and Central America, returned to Andalusia, Spain, with little more than his memories and the empty title of Marqués del Valle de Oaxaca. There, twenty-five years after his great days, Cortes died in obscurity.
The three centuries that followed the ar-
World Alrmvs Teacher
STUDY UNIT
rival of Cortes are not an inspiring chapter of Mexico’s history, except from the artistic point of view. Dozens of great churches were built during the colonial period and in general they are a pleasure to the eye. To that era also belongs Sor Juana Inés de la Cruz, born in 1651. At the age of eight she had learned Latin, she became famous as a prodigy. At seventeen she became a nun in the convent of San Jerónimo in Mexico City and here she lived the rest of her life. She was a poetess who could write tender sonnets and long poems. Her fame is well established in the Spanish world.
Politically and economically Mexico was frustrated. Independence had to be gained. The spark was struck in the little village of Dolores Hidalgo. Here the parish priest, Father Miguel Hidalgo, uttered his famous Grito (cry) , Septiembre 15, 1810. Proclaiming that Mexico should be free he started for Guanajuato with a small group of poorly armed men. He was caught in Acatita de Bajan and shot at Chihuahua. But Hidalgo had awakened Mexico, others carried on the War of Independence and finally won it in 1821. In honor of Father Hidalgo, September 15th is observed as Independence Day.
Education a Reality
The progress in education is one of Mexico’s great achievements. It started in 1921 when the great writer José Vasconcelos, then appointed Minister of Education, gave to millions of Mexicans who had not been at any school before the opportunity to study and to learn. Vasconcelos brought famous educators from North and South American countries to help. Moisés Saenz, from Columbia University, worked tirelessly for more than ten years to establish a very successful program of education. In 1922, Vasconcelos invited Gabriela Mistral, the Chilean teacher and poetess (later 1945 Nobel Prize winner for Literature) to assist in the great educational reform going on in Mexico. For two years Gabriela Mistral devoted her energies to improving rural education. She organized schools throughout the country. She formed groups of three to five teachers, including a carpenter, a mason, a teacher of agriculture, and teachers of reading and writing.
These groups moved about, visiting small Indian villages and bringing them learning in the form of the Three R’s, and introducing modern methods in manual work. When these teachers moved on to another group, the first group was left in charge of the most intelligent Indian in the class. He continued the classes until the teachers returned. Most of these classes were held in the open air, without a building and without school materials. Mistral’s work in Mexico has not been forgotten. Her name is honored there as though she were a national hero.
Vasconcelos not only brought famous educators to Mexico. To meet the great need of textbooks he ordered the printing of thousands of books and supplied both ancient and modern works to some 5,000 rural libraries. Since then Mexican education has advanced tremendously. There are today thousands of elementary and high schools, agricultural, commercial and normal schools. The National University of Mexico, founded
in 1551, is famous in our continent. Years ago it had no campus life, for the various colleges were housed in different buildings all over the city of Mexico. Today all that is a thing of the past. The modern Ciudad Universitaria is something overwhelming. Mexican architects have combined modern materials and techniques with typically Mexican form and decoration. They have used ferroconcreto (iron-braced concrete) and native stone in many colors. They have made effective use of contour by hollowing out of the lava the magnificent sweep of the Olympian stadium. Its decor is a frieze of painted stones designed by Diego Rivera to illustrate Mexico’s sports under the traditional torch.
The administration building rises in glass to skyscraper height. It has scenes of youth serving Mexico with knowledge, painted by David Siqueiros. The Tower of Science balances the administration building with flat yellow walls, and between them stands the library. This a harmonious and graceful building, decorated with stone mosaics whose muted colors provide soft reading light inside. One motor road circles the entire campus, passing playing-fields for every sport and swimming-pools large enough to give pleasure of hundreds of swimmers. The inner courts and buildings are connected by arcades into department units. The general plan includes dormitories for both men and women, separate houses and apartment dwellings for professors, a shopping center, lecture halls, and auditoriums. There is even a Catholic church with priest’s house and clubrooms.
This is the great Ciudad Universitaria of today. A few thousand students could go to the university before 1910. In those days there was no campus life, no dormitories; students often lived in slums, gathered in pulquerias or rioted through the streets. Over 30,000 students attend classes today, for Ciudad Universitaria stands as the realization of the educators’ dream of a proper center in which to educate young Mexicans for our modern world.
With these new facilities for learning the tradition of Mexican culture will go on forever. New generations will carry on the torch of light held by such men like Juan Ruiz de Alarcon (1580-1639) , Sor Juana Ines de la Cruz (1651-1695), Francisco de Lizardi (1776-1827) . In his Itching Parrot, Lizardi gives a realistic picture of Mexican life in all its strata, and offers a rich source from which one may draw a full knowledge of those complex times. In a way, Ciudad Universitaria is the culmination of the 1910 Mexican Revolution, represented so well in literature by Mariano Azuela’s The Underdog and Martin Luis Guzman’s The Eagle and the Serpent. In these books one can get a picture of Mexican life clearer than in any book about Mexico. If one is to judge the temper of a people by the literature they produce, then Mexico stands high as a leader of thought.
The Colorful Mexican Side
Scores of books have been written about Mexico’s colorful life. There are glowing descriptions of thrilling bullfights, of Xoch-imilco’s maze of canals and islands, and of the place of the miracle where the Virgin of Guadalupe spoke softly to the Indian