Page T-4
Pa/v Amertca/v
World Alrways Teacher
Ministry of Education. Dr. Jorge Basadre is the Minister of Education, and he told me that such activities as we have in mind could be arranged, depending upon the specific requirements of the specific project.
Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos. Founded under royal decree of May 12, 1551, San Farcos is the oldest university in the western hemisphere and is 100 years older than Harvard.
As the University is without a rector at this time, we discussed matters of travel University-wise with Dr. Paul Porras Bar-renechea, who is President of the Peruvian Senate and Acting Rector of San Marcos.
For information about the University’s special session for American students in the season which is summer north of the equator and winter in Lima, he referred us to the school’s Director, so we returned to the center of the city and —
Escuela de Estudios Especiales Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos
San Marcos is located only a four minute walk from the Plaza San Martin. It is a long, low building, with many patios filled with bougainvilleas and poinsettias. A guide led us through the patios, and corridors, to the office of Dr. Augusto Tamayo Vargas, Director, Escuela de Estudios Especiales and with great enthusiasm Dr. Tamayo told us of his plans for this school of Special Studies, geared especially to the needs and desires of students of the United States.
I’d wondered why I hadn’t been hearing so much about this special school during the past two years. Now I know. Dr. Tamayo has been in Brazil for a special project but he’s back now, and full of ideas for expanding and improving, and here’s the lineup for 1957:
Registration	July	2
Reception,
Peruvian and	U.S. students	July	5
Cdasses begin	July	8
End of session at Lima	August 16
Special session at Cuzco for
archeological students August 19-24 Courses are offered in Spanish and English, history, geography, literature, archeology and the humanities. Cost: $90 for the Lima session only, $150 for the entire session including the optional excursion to Cuzco.
Dr. Tamayo has new literature in preparation, and is sending me a supply, which should be available in my office about the time this letter goes out, so write to me if you want copies.
CHILE
My arrival at Los Cerrillos Airport, Santiago was at 3 a.m., but just the same, as I walked across the ramp toward the immigrations room, I heard someone call out “Hello, George.” It was Frank Hinsdale, tour desk operator in New York City PAA Sales office — in South America for familiarization. He was waiting for my flight, holding in his hot little fist his SUBLO (subject to pay load) ticket, and hoping to get aboard when the flight went on to Buenos Aires. (He didn’t).
In the Immigration Department, I was greeted by Harold Beckett, the Panagra Gerente de Ventas, who reminded me that
he had called upon me in New York City some ten years ago. He was in New York at that time as a C.A.A. scholarship holder — under a State Department-Civil Aeronautics Administration program for bringing Latinos working in the aviation industry to the United States for familiarization programs in the U. S. aviation industry. Harold was working for Panagra then, too. I arranged a program of visits for him in our Traffic, Operations and Maintenance Departments. He was in the U.S.A. for three months, visiting us and American Airlines. Now he’s a key man in Panagra’s Traffic Department in Santiago, and a shining example of the benefits which may be realized by the special type of educational travel which he experienced back in 1947. Harold Beckett took me to the Hotel Carrera, of the I.H.C. chain, and I turned in for four hours of fast sleeping in preparation for my visit in Santiago.
It was Semana Santa (Holy Week) when I arrived in Santiago, in fact — that 3 a.m. was on Viernes Santa (Good Friday) — so we made no attempt to set up a series of interviews such as I’d had at prior stops on my journey. But Elinor Halle, the petite, charming and completely efficient Cultural Attache at the U. S. Embassy came to her office especially to talk to me. From her, Harold Beckett and the Panagra Public Relations man, Charles Griffin, I gleaned enough information so that I can give you approximately the same summary for Chile, that I’m offering for the other countries.
Not being able to have the usual series of interviews, I had an afternoon off, and used it in “postman’s holiday” fashion. I went to the airport to see the northbound departure of El Interamericano, and I’m glad I did because I met Mr. and Mrs. Reto Tratschin of Zurich, Switzerland. Reto is a junior high school teacher — Mrs. Tratschin is a sales agent at the counter in our PAA office in Zurich. They roam the world during every vacation, and their trip at this time had brought them from Switzerland to Brazil, Argentina and Chile, and they were on their way up the west coast of South America, by stages, and back home to Switzerland. The experiences they accumulate, illustrated by their color pictures (transparencies) must provide some thrilling “enrichment” for the geography and social studies classes in the Zurich junior high school!
It was a short visit, that stop in Santiago; I did get you these facts:
U. S. Embassy. Carries on an active exchange program for students and teachers, as in other Latin American countries. Miss Halle is terrifically enthusiastic for her work, and will give intelligent cooperation for special programs, in whatever ways are available to the Embassy.
Universities. Universidad de Chile does attract some students from the U.S., but it’s necessary to be fluent in Spanish to benefit. School year is March 15-December 15. Summer school in January. Universidad Catolica de Chile is in session March to December, also, has its summer session in February. If you want your group to visit either university, this can readily be arranged.
Instituto Chileno-Norteamericano de Cul-
tura. This is one of the bi-national institutes — I’ve referred to such above. It has 3,000 Chilenos per year studying English, and a lesser number of “us foreigners” studying Spanish, also has an active cultural program of music, art, etc. It’s a place to schedule for a visit by your group.
Santiago — Buenos Aires
When I started working for Pan American some years ago (never mind how many!) we used to send out “Oh, my Gosh!”
—	press releases about the flight over the Andes from Santiago to Buenos Aires.
It was the highest scheduled flight in the world (still is). Oxygen was piped to outlets beside all seats. It was necessary to clear the floor of Uspallata Pass by a generous margin, since powerful drafts could carry the aircraft of those days up, or down, 1000 feet in a breathtakingly short interval. On one side was Cerro Aconcagua, 23,080 feet, and the highest mountain in the Western Hemisphere. On the other side was Cerro Tupungato, a mere 21,810. In the middle of the Pass, at the border between Chile and Argentina, was the statue, Christ of the Andes, buffeted, in mid-winter, by some of the most terrific winds in the world. And so on.
I know, because I wrote some of those stories. So I looked forward to this flight.
Well, the mountains, Aconcagua and Portezuelos, are as high as ever and the Christ of the Andes stands immovable, symbolizing peace and friendship between Argentina and Chile — but the flight over the Andes is altogether different.
You leave Las Cerrillos Airport, circle for altitude, and head northeast toward La Cumbre. Oxygen is not used (except as an emergency supply which is available if someone has a heart condition, or something), because the cabin is pressurized
—	and as we continue to climb, the superchargers keep pace, so that we breathe air at the equivalent of 4,000 to 5,000 feet instead of 20,000 to 25,000.
The mountains are in sight from the time of take off — as we start into the pass the terrain beneath the airplane becomes more black and rugged each minute. Huge folds of rock reach toward the DC 7-B — with knife edges across their tops —■ there is a winding road, and a keen eye can find the railroad. Patches of snow spot the tops of the higher peaks — even in April which is the beginning of fall.
The “commuters” pay scant attention, even when the Captain takes to the public address system to alert passengers that the statue will be seen within the next few minutes. But I pay attention! I’ve had my nose pressed to a window pane ever since we entered the pass. There it is — Christ of the Andes.
We’re only 20 minutes from Santiago. We fly another ten minutes over and between the rocky Andes, and then, a limitless carpet of grey-white cloud stretches out ahead, covering the plains of western Argentina. That’s all, except for another 2(4 hours of routine flying and the landing at Ezeiza Airport.
The ’Round South America article will be continued in the next issue, with reports from Argentina, Uruguay, Brazil and Venezuela.