Page 8
World Alehaes Teacher
STUDY UNIT
portion of total imports which consists of finished manufactures for consumption.
Mexico’s exports are fairly highly diversified. In 1953 over thirty products were exported in amounts exceeding a value of one million dollars each and the list would be longer if products exported in both crude and processed form were listed separately. The list included 12 mineral items; 10 industrial raw materials and semi-manufactures; five food products in crude form; five manufactured food products; and three finished manufactures, — books, cordage and cotton cloth. Normally four to eight of these items account for half or more of the total value of exports.
The United States has been Mexico’s principal trading partner for three-fourths of a century. The completion of a railroad from the United States border to Mexico City in 1888, the large United States investments; the expanding United States market for raw materials and food products; and the suitability of United States merchandise for Mexican needs and tastes were among the factors bringing about this result. The proximity of the United States affording quick and economical delivery and the interruption of other trade channels during two World Wars also strengthened this position. During the three year period 1951-53 the United States took 74% of Mexico’s exports and supplied 82% of her imports. In the 1936-38 period the ratios were 61% and 60% respectively. In recent years, Mexico has occupied first place among the Latin American markets of the United States and third place among all United States markets in the world. As a source of United States imports, Mexico is normally in third or fourth position among Latin American countries and in fifth or sixth position among all countries.
Mexico imports from the United States include a very wide variety of products: foodstuffs, raw materials of various kinds, basic ferrous and non-ferrous semi-manufactures and manufactures, machinery, automotive and railway equipment, chemicals and pharmaceutical products and many kinds of finished manufactures. Its exports to the United States are also fairly well diversified, but the bulk of the trade consists of metals, raw cotton, henequen fiber and manufactures, cattle, vegetables, coffee and fresh and preserved fruits. Mexico’s trade with Canada has also increased in recent years as compared with the pre-World War II period. Furthermore the increase probably has been somewhat greater than statistics indicate since some of the larger items are shipped via the United States. Mexico’s chief imports from Canada are newsprint, non-ferrous products, agricultural and industrial machinery and film. Wheat and wheat flour are also important items although they are not shown in the statistics. Mexican exports to Canada include peanuts, cotton, coffee, preserved pineapple and zinc concentrates.
Percentagewise, United States and Canadian gains have been made at the expense of Europe which before World War II supplied 35% of Mexican imports and purchased 31% of Mexican exports. Trade with Europe declined during the war, rose fairly rapidly during the early postwar years and
thereafter again decreased. In 1953, Europe supplied 14.1% of Mexican imports and bought 11.5% of her exports. Germany was in first place as a supplier, but the United Kingdom was the principal market. The ready market in the United States and Canada for most Mexican exports has simplified Mexico’s balance of payments problems since it receives dollars rather than inconvertible currencies for its goods. However Europe has been the traditional market for certain items and normally there are surpluses that cannot be marketed advantageously in the Dollar Countries.
Asia continues to play a relatively minor role in Mexican trade but since the end of World War II, Japan has become an important supplier of sewing machines, bicycle and motorcycle parts and chinaware as well as a market for cotton, zinc and other raw materials. A major import of Far Eastern origin is crude rubber, however most of Mexico’s imports of this commodity are from the United States. Some jute or burlap is imported from the United Kingdom or the United States but jute has been replaced largely by native fibers. Mexico’s trade with other Latin American countries is small consisting chiefly of exports of mineral products, cotton cloth and such specialties as films and books.
Mexico ranks third among Latin American countries with respect to railroad mileages being out-distanced by Argentina and Brazil. Its national Railway System includes more than twenty railroads with an aggregate trackage of 14,880 miles. The nation’s highway program is relatively new and nearly two-thirds of its present system has been built since 1939. Highway length at the close of 1954, exclusive of 62,000 miles of dirt roads, was approximately 16,155 miles. As in countries where overland commercial transportation for the most part is slow, air transportation has developed rapidly. Mexico City is the hub of all air transportation and in addition to airlanes linking the Capital with cities all over the world, air routes link the Capital with more than fifty important cities and towns in all parts of Mexico.
Within a matter of a few hours by air from Mexico City any of the fascinating cities and out-of-the-way spots in Mexico
may be reached. Mexico City itself, the oldest city in North America, is rich in tradition and romantic settings. It is modern in appearance with wide boulevards and public buildings at the same time reflecting the influence of Mexico’s Spanish rulers in some of its ornate architecture. The more colorful aspects of the city are found in its older portions where narrow streets are crowded with gaily dressed peons and aristocrats alike. Among the outstanding structures are the National Museum of Natural History and Antiquities, the School of Mines, and the national library. In the center of the business district is a great square, the Plaza Mayor, along one side of which is a magnificent cathedral. Everywhere in Mexico one finds some evidence of the nation’s historic past. Near Mexico City are a score of areas called “archaeological zones” which are set aside for future study and possible restoration.
Going in any direction from Mexico City, the traveler will find places to excite his imagination. There is Puebla, built by the Spaniards as a half-way stopping place between Veracruz and Mexico City. Veracruz itself. Oaxaca, the Emerald City, which gets its name both from the lush surrounding countryside and the special green marble quarried nearby. The Yucatan Peninsula which is the center of the ruins of the great Mayan civilization long hidden by tangled underbrush and jungle. Cuernavaca, the pleasant semi-tropical town where Cortez and the Emperor Maximilian with his Empress Carlotta vacationed at lower altitudes. Taxco, the old silver-mining village with its cobbled streets and red-tiled houses. The State of Michoacan with its beautiful lakes and famous laquerware. Guadalajara, one of the oldest cities of the Spanish colonial era. And of course Tampico, on the Gulf of Mexico.
The Mexican border towns are not the real Mexico. The real Mexico is a combination of modern Twentieth Century drive coupled with stoic Indian tenacity. Such a combination must bring a nation to the successful attainment of its goals no matter how difficult the road. And with a background such as is found in Mexico, no road, no matter how hard, can be without pleasure.