Page 7
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
MEXICO
Church steeple in Taxco showing elaborate ornamental work.
increased production so that in 1954 it was nearly adequate for the country’s requirements. Rice is produced in sufficient quantities for the domestic requirement and occasionally provides an export surplus.
Sugar cane acreage has doubled since 1939 and trebled since 1920. Improved varieties of cane have been introduced widely and yields have risen in irrigated areas. Traditionally, vegetables other than beans and chili and to a lesser extent sweet potatoes and squash, have not occupied a prominent place in the Mexican cuisine although tomatoes have been used for seasoning rice and bean dishes. Recently fresh vegetables have been given a more important place in the diet and canning and preserving industries are using substantial quantities of certain vegetables, especially tomatoes. Since the beginning of the Twentieth Century, a considerable export trade in fresh vegetables to the United States has been developed principally during the winter months. White potatoes are produced as are sweet potatoes and a few thousand tons of seed potatoes are imported annually from the United States, Denmark and the Netherlands.
Bananas of the export type are grown but exports are showing a downward trend due to prevalence of diseases. Pineapple production and export of the fresh fruit, on the other hand, is increasing. Coffee planting has been increasing fairly steadily. The cacao plant is native to Mexico and Mexican cacao is of flavor grade. Cocoa was a popular drink among the Aztecs and cacao beans or “almonds” were used as money. In the early colonial period the product was introduced into Europe and at times was a significant export item. Later the crop was neglected and Mexico even imported cacao and its products at times. There are now 16 million cacao trees in Mexico of which about 70% are more than ten years old. There has been considerable planting since the war and about two million new trees began bearing in 1952. The production of vanilla on a commercial scale is confined to a relatively small area. Production of oilseeds and animal fats and oils is increasing and more than 60% of the combined total is accounted for by vegetable oils.
During the last two decades cotton production has expanded more rapidly than any other major crop. This has been partly as a result of an effort to meet needs of the expanding cotton textile industry during World War II and postwar years when exports of cotton goods were substantial and partly because of the opening of new irrigated areas coupled with high cotton prices in the export market. Several hard fibers are indigeneous to Mexico. The most important of these is henequen, grown on the semi-arid limestone soil on the Gulf Coast of the Yucatan Peninsula. Before World War I, Yucatan had a virtual monopoly of henequen but subsequently it has had competition not only from henequen plantations in other countries but also from sisal growers. Henequen is preferred for the manufacture of binder twines and is also used to a considerable extent in the manufacture of bags.
The number of livestock in Mexico has increased very slowly in the last two decades
due to severe droughts in the north. The dairy industry on the other hand, has expanded considerably during the last decade as a result of a growing appreciation of the importance of milk in the diet and the building of new plants for the pasteurizing and processing of milk. The potentials of Mexico’s fishing industry has not been fully developed but the importance of this industry to the nation’s economy is recognized. Fish has never been a predominant item in the Mexican diet. It is becoming more important due to better means of food conservation and improved transportation facilities from the seacoast. Shrimp, sardine and tuna are the most important catches. Freezing of marine products has developed into an important activity, especially shrimp freezing, done at plants on the Pacific coast. Sardines and some tuna are also canned.
Mexico’s mining industry, once the mainspring of its economy, has long been declining in relative importance as other activities have expanded more rapidly. In recent years mining has accounted for only three to four percent of national income but it continues to be an important source of both revenue and foreign exchange and accounts for about one-third of the total value of exports. Mining sections are found in all sections of the country except the southeast and petroleum fields are scattered along the Gulf Coast and the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. Mexico is first among the countries of the world in silver production; second in lead, antimony and molybdenum; third in zinc; fourth in mercury; fifth in vanadium; sixth in petroleum; and seventh in gold and copper. Important sulphur deposits are also being developed. Mexico has important coal reserves but for the most part coal is found in broken seams and is high in ash and other impurities. No sand suitable for flat glass has been found in Mexico and clay suitable for pottery or refractories is difficult to locate.
Mexico’s manufacturing industries have experienced an exceptionally rapid expansion since 1939 and by 1951 volume of production was nearly double that of the earlier year. Virtually all branches of industry have shared the advance. Most of the increase in production has resulted from fuller use of equipment or expansion of facilities in established industries such as iron and steel, sugar, cement, paper, chemicals, glass and cordage. However many new industries were created during and after the Nineteen-Forties such as rayon and acetate, alkalies, plywood, fertilizer, electrical equipment, refractories, aluminum products, tinplate and tin containers and various assembly operations. Almost 15% of the people are engaged in manufacturing, construction and utilities. The largest concentration of manufacturing industry centers in the Federal District and the industrial area in the adjoining State of Mexico. The second most important industrial state is Nuevo Leon of which Monterrey is the capital. The State of Jalisco, with Guadalajara as its capital, ranks third; the State of Puebla, fourth; and the State of Veracruz, fifth.
Mexico’s foreign trade has expanded greatly in both value and volume during the last decade. The increase in imports was particularly notable and was made possible by a substantial improvement in terms of trade and by receipt of large amounts of exchange derived from non-trade sources. The tourist industry now brings into Mexico about $300,000,000 a year. The composition of Mexico’s imports has also changed substantially. In recent years, capital goods have been the most important items accounting for nearly 40% of total imports. Raw and semi-processed materials are next accounting for nearly 30%; and consumption goods of all kinds including food are in third place accounting for 18%. These figures emphasize the relatively small pro-