Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
any extent. No mineral deposits of any consequence have been discovered. Agriculture is the main occupation although probably not more than 2,800 acres can be considered good farming land.
About 25% of the Island’s total land area is arable; 22% is in forest land; 40% in pasture and meadow; and 13% wasteland. Aside from breadfruit and coconuts which are important elements of the native diet, the most important food crops are corn (maize), sweet potatoes, taro and cassava. Livestock and poultry numbers were sharpely reduced during World War II.
In 1949 more than one-third of the employable Guamanians worked for the United States Government. Exports include coconut and coconut oil. After cessation of hostilities large quantities of surplus military material were exported either to China or back to the United States. All manufactured products are imported from the States and imports exceed exports by about four to one.
The 1950 census showed a literacy rate in Guam for all people ten years of age and older of 84%. Education is compulsory with curriculums closely paralleling those in .the United States except for minor adaptations to emphasize local needs and interests. Instruction is in English with 20% of the Island’s total expenditures going into public education.
From 1898 until 1950 Guam was under the jurisdiction of the United States Navy but since 1950 it has been under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior. Wake still remains under Navy jurisdiction. The administration of the Island is under a governor, who, until 1949 was a naval officer. At that time Guam’s first civilian governor was named. The Guam Congress is composed of a House of Council and a House of Assembly, both popularly elected. One councilman is elected for each of the Island’s fifteen municipalities for a four year term. One assemblyman is elected from each district within municipalities for a two year term. In 1948 legislative power was extended to the Guam Congress in place of its former advisory power. Now the Congress can over-ride the governor’s veto of proposed legislation and submit disputed legislation to Washington, D.C. for final action.
Guam and Wake are airports of call on Pan American Pacific Asiatic and Australasian Services. Wake is also a stopping point on Pan American’s Round-the-World Services. One strange occurrence at Wake is that from the viewpoint of the New World, it is always tomorrow. This is due to the fact that the International Date Line is located in the middle of the Pacific Ocean and this line is crossed by Clipper travelers shortly after leaving Midway for Wake. Therefore they can take off from Midway early Saturday morning and without experiencing noon, afternoon, dusk or darkness, find that it is suddenly Sunday. Traveling from Midway to Wake can provide two Christmases, two birthdays or two New Year’s celebrations in immediately succeeding twenty-four hour periods.
Midway, key intermediate stop on the air line route of 1935, became a victim of tech-
nical progress when the Pacific operation was taken over by land aircraft with flying ranges much greater than those of the early flying boats. But it does retain a function in Pacific air service, by providing weather information. Also, the runways there are available should an unscheduled landing there become necessary.
It is an easy matter for travelers on Guam to spend their time on that Island seeing different towns and villages and getting an exciting first hand look at the subject of so many headlines during the Second World War. But what does one do with time on Wake? This problem is one of the easiest to solve. Seen from the air each of three tiny coral formations seem to be set in its own emerald green lake in a limitless expanse of indigo blue ocean.
Wake has the languorous climate of a South Sea island with a temperature slightly warmer than that of Honolulu, averaging about 80 degrees. The Island’s lagoon contains one of the most remarkable collections of small, tropical fish to be found anywhere in the world. Their coloring and variety are a source of never ceasing wonder, both to first-comers and come-backers. And the waters outside the reef hold sporting fish of such size, variety and fight, that they have become famed as a fishermen’s paradise.
Any trip to the major lands of the Pacific is bound to be crammed with action and excitement and the stepping stones of Guam and Wake make perfect interludes where relaxation, enjoyment and sights of general interest are all rolled into one.
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
('Continued from page 2)
At that time the aircraft for ocean service were all flying boats, and the first route to the South Seas was from San Francisco to Hawaii, Canton Island, Noumea, and then to Auckland in New Zealand. When service to Australia was added, the aircraft went to Sydney. Fiji was not a stop on the original route — again because of the necessity of first obtaining landing rights, Fiji being a British possession. As soon as these rights were granted, Fiji became a regular stop.
The route now (see map) is Los Angeles, or San Francisco, or Seattle-Portland, to Hawaii, Canton and Fiji, and then by different routes to Australia, New Zealand and Samoa.
One other comparison between the pioneer years of Pacific flying and the present may be mentioned.
In the days of the China Clipper, the flight to Hong Kong took almost a week — to New Zealand the journey occupied four and a half days. It was an overnight flight to Honolulu, leaving San Francisco at 4 p.m. and with arrival at Honolulu the following morning. Beyond Honolulu, the Clippers did not fly at night — hotels were provided at the island stations for the overnight stops by passengers and crews. Present day schedules call for continuous flights, with stops only for the time required to refuel, and passengers go all the way to Tokyo in a day and a half.