Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT_______________________
PACIFIC STEPPING STONES
by Lou A. Phillips
cruiser nosed over the horizon. Quickly the Americans decided to run the subchaser into the narrow channel leading to the lagoon, thereby blocking entrance to any other vessel. Then nervously they watched the steady approach of the bristling man-of-war, while debating over then-next step. Finally they wirelessed Washington. They were determined to defend their position against all the guns of the Royal Australian Navy, they reported, but asked: ‘What shall we do now?’ British officers came ashore and ordered the Americans away. “High words,” continues Mr. Josephson, “were exchanged, but the Americans went doggedly about their preparations for an airport at one side of the island while the British landed an official of the Empire postal system and set up a little shack for him on the beach, at another side. Then the cruiser sailed majestically away. The postman, disputing the American occupation, defended the thin red line of Empire alone. Whenever the Pan American employees happened to come over near his quarters to fish off the beach, he would snap at them: ‘Throw that fish back into the sea. Crown property, you know.’ ”
This mimic warfare was, of course, soon settled. England and the United States arrived at the unusual solution of establishing an Anglo-American condominium at Canton Island, to endure for fifty years. As a post-script to this story, the dour little British postal official stayed on, ordered to hold his ground until 1990. But as the Second World War went on the British could not supply him, and Pan American crews had to feed him until 1942, when he was finally recalled.
This coral atoll, the largest of the Phoenix Group, is only about eight square miles in area. A low rim of land (at no point more than twenty feet above sea level), sparsely covered with bunch grass, scaevola shrubs and coconut palms, surrounds a lagoon. Its crystal clear waters abounding in colorful marine life, including the beautiful parrot fish.
Like other South Sea Islands, Canton has interesting bird life. One can see big Bos’n birds, with long brilliantly red tail feathers, hi-jacking frigates, booby birds and terns. Here you are really in the tropics. Canton has no indigenous population. Those you may see came here for employment from the Colony of Fiji.
According to the 1955 census there were 275 persons living on Canton comprising British subjects employed by their Government and American personnel employed by the U. S. Civil Aeronautics Administration, Pan American and other agencies.
Canton has a kindergarten and grade school, a two-bed hospital, a doctor, a post office, radio station and other facilities. During the war Canton rendered important service. It had an Army air base, and it was to that base that Captain Eddie Rickenbacker and his men were bound when they were forced down at sea and went through the agony of waiting to be rescued. Today this little island continues to be another great link in the chain of international air transportation.
The dictionary defines a “stepping stone” as a projection above the surface of water on which to step in walking, hence, a means of progress or advancement. This definition, translated into Air Age parlance, accurately describes the significant roles being played by the Pacific Islands of Guam and Wake. In past eras, dominated by surface transportation, two such tiny land masses off the established sea lanes amid the vastness of the Pacific Ocean assumed little importance. With the dawn of the Air Age however, both proved to be important factors in Pan American World Airways’ pioneering of the Pacific.
As progress was made from flying boats through long-range land-based aircraft to jet aircraft Guam and Wake gained in stature as vital links in an air network linking three continents. In addition, they play an important role in general American influence in one of the most troubled areas of the globe.
GUAM
Guam was discovered by Ferdinand Magellan on March 6, 1521 while on his voyage around the world. Due to the many thefts of supplies by natives he gave the whole group of islands to which Guam belonged the name of Islas de los Ladrones (Thieves Islands).
There was no attempt to conquer Guam until the latter part of the Seventeenth Century when the Spanish subdued the islands after considerable bloodshed. They were colonized in 1668 by Spanish missionaries who renamed them the Marianas in honor of Maria Ana of Austria, widow of King Philip IV of Spain. Guam remained a Spanish possession until 1898 when the United States Warship Charleston steamed into Apia Harbor and commenced to shell the old fort.
The Spanish Governor, cut off from communication with the outside world, took this as a friendly salute and surrendered the Island without opposition when the situation was explained to him. Guam was ceded to the United States and the other islands of the Marianas were sold by Spain to Germany in 1899. After World War I Japan, which had occupied the German island possessions north of the equator, received these South Sea islands (the Marianas, Caroline and Marshall groups) as a mandate under the League of Nations.
Guam was entirely demilitarized after the Washington Treaty of Naval Limitation of 1922. The question of fortifying the Island came up sporadically for consideration after Japan denounced the Washington treaty and thereby opened the way to fortification of island possessions of other powers. Congress, however, was unwilling to appropriate funds for this purpose partially because of the belief that such a move would precipitate war with Japan and partially because of the feeling of some naval experts that Guam, in its exposed position, could not be made secure from air bombardment. The Japanese landed on Guam in the first days of World War
II and occupied the Island by December 12, 1941.
Two and one-half years later, United States Marine and Army Forces returned to the Marianas. Guam was invaded on July 20, 1944 and was back in United States hands by August 9th. The Island was turned into a huge air and naval base and was one of the major airfields for the great squadrons of Superfortress Bombers that attacked Japan in the last days of the War. Today the Government has developed harbor facilities, airfields and other installations still further to make Guam one of the most important of the chain of military bases in the Pacific. It is now the principal Pacific base of the United States Air Force’s Strategic Air Command.
WAKE ISLAND
The Island of Wake was discovered in 1568 by the Spanish explorer Alvaro de Mendana on one of his many voyages of exploration from Peru across the Pacific. In writing of his discovery he stated that he named it San Francisco Island after the Saint on whose day he first sighted the atoll. Subsequent mapmakers failed to take note of his claim and no San Francisco Island was ever reported by later voyagers. The next recorded visit was made in 1796 by the British schooner Prince Henry bound for China under the command of William Wake. He did not bother to claim the Island in the name of his king due to its lack of both water and vegetation. In 1841 a United States exploring expedition, consisting of a flotilla of warships under the command of Commodore Charles Wilkes, paid a visit to Wake. In 1846, the German bark Libelle went aground at Wake during a storm, landing passengers and $300,000 in coins and quicksilver. The treasure has never been located.
Wake’s location, lying alone in the North Pacific, 2,296 miles due west of Honolulu, combined with its lack of water and vegetation and tales of the shipwreck, all combined to make the Island extremely unpopular with seamen who gave Wake a wide berth in subsequent years. With the advent of the Spanish American War however, General Merritt in July, 1898, in the United States Army Transport Thomas, paused briefly at the Island and raised the American flag.
In 1899, Commander Edward D. Taussig of the United States Navy visited Wake aboard the Bennington and formalized the annexation. With the beginning of World War II in 1939, the United States Navy began developing Wake into an air and submarine base. On the eve of Pearl Harbor the base was about half completed and there was a force of 1,146 civilian workers and 377 Marines on the Island.
On December 8, 1941 Wake time, a few hours after Pearl Harbor was attacked, Wake was bombed by Japan. After a seventeen-day assault the Island was captured on December 23, 1941 and the more than