THE
Page 7
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
PACIFIC ISLANDS
1,500 Americans were evacuated to China and Japan. The Island was heavily fortified by the Japanese but pounded by United States carrier task forces. Japan surrendered Wake on September 4, 1945 and a naval air base was immediately constructed by the United States for use by military and naval planes as a stop on the route to Tokyo. On October 15, 1950, then President Harry S. Truman and General Douglas MacArthur met at Wake Island for an historic conference on world affairs.
Throughout the warp and woof of the history of Guam and Wake from the Nineteen Thirties on, runs the thread of Pan American World Airways conquest of the Pacific.
In 1934 Pan American temporarily shelved the idea of a far northern great circle course across the Pacific skirting Russian and Japanese territory because of the international situation at that time. On the basis of data collected as far back as log books of old clipper sailing ships a mid-Pacific route was decided upon. This route was finally fixed to run from San Francisco to Honolulu, Midway Island, Wake Island, Guam and Manila. From Honolulu, following the old sailing vessels’ route, one air road was to lead south-westward to Australia and New Zealand. From Manila another air route was to lead northwest to Shanghai or Hong Kong or southwest to Singapore. Honolulu and Manila had some aircraft facilities but Midway, a cable station, and Wake, a desert atoll, had no facilities whatsoever. Complete commercial air stations had to be set up.
AIRWAY CONSTRUCTION
In 1935, a Pan American World Airways chartered steamer, the North Haven, having been at Midway for the completion of an air station on that Island, arrived at Wake. Actually the term “Wake” applies to a group of three islets: Wilkes, Peal and Wake, arranged in the shape of a horse-shoe and separated by narrow, shallow channels enclosing a lagoon about 4i/2 miles in length. In the hold of the North Haven were approximately 100 carloads of material and gear including sectionalized, prefabricated houses, all of the appurtenances of a modern hotel, electric fixtures, furniture, radio equipment, lighting, pumping and refrigeration equipment. The new builders quickly discovered that the larger island named Wake would not serve as a modern airways station such as was planned. The ideal and only location was across the lagoon on Peal.
A freight dock had to be built on the ocean side of Wilkes Island for unloading of cargo and a tiny railroad through the wilderness of that isle had to be constructed to carry the supplies to the point of construction. Careful storage of fresh water was the only answer to Wake’s lack of this necessity and the inability of Wake soil to sustain life in vegetation was solved by unique experiments in hydroponics which is farming with chemicals. A modern airline passenger station was finally constructed and used until December 8th, December 7th, Pearl Harbor time, when the Philippine Clipper cancelled its trip to Guam while
in flight and returned to Wake Island. It was strafed but remained in flying condition to evacuate a full load of passengers and Pan American employees.
The first Clipper ship to return to Wake after World War II landed on December 12, 1945. Regular scheduled service was resumed a few months after that date. Through an agreement with the United States Civil Aeronautics Administration, Pan American maintains Wake as a refueling stop both for its own planes and those of other trans-Pacific airlines. Wake’s population presently averages 500, largely representatives of Pan American, the Civil Aeronautics Administration, the Standard Oil Company and the United States Weather Bureau.
In contrast to Wake with its two square miles of area, Guam is the largest, most populous and southernmost island of the Marianas. Lying in the central Pacific about 5,100 miles west of San Francisco; 3,340 miles west of Honolulu; 1,501 miles west of Wake; 1,500 miles east of Manila; and 1,350 miles east of Yokohama, the Island has an area of 206 square miles. It is about thirty miles long and from 4 to 8y2 miles wide.
In 1950 Guam’s population numbered 59,498. In 1710 when the first official census was taken by the Spanish Government its population was 3,678. The first United States census taken in 1901 showed 9,676 inhabitants. The native population of Guam, said to be descendents of Malays who migrated from Asia, are of the Chamorro stock with a considerable admixture of occidental and oriental blood. In 1950 the Chamorro were said to number 27,124 but it is probable that no full blooded natives exist today.
The official language of Guam is English
and all Guamanians are able to use it although they continue to use some Spanish as well as the Chamorro tongue. The religion is predominantly Roman Catholic.
The southern part of Guam is high and mountainous with a range of hills along the west coast from 700 to 1,300 feet high. Numerous small rivers and their tributaries rise in this ridge and empty into the sea on the east coast. The northern half of the Island is a plateau ranging from 200 to 600 feet in elevation with only a few small brooks on the northeast coast. There is heavy jungle growth over most of the island making constant clearing necessary. The highest peak is Mt. LamLam in the southern part which reaches 1,334 feet. The soil in the northern part of the Island is very fertile although shallow.
Apra, located in the central portion of the west coast, is the Island’s best harbor. It is about 31/2 miles wide with the town of Piti located on its northern end. Agana, the capital and largest city, was severely damaged during World War II as were most other towns and villages. Sinajana and Inarajan are two other towns of some importance. The climate in Guam is generally fair and pleasant with a mean annual temperature of 81 degrees F and a range of from 70° to 91°. May and June are the hottest months. The southwest monsoon blows at fairly frequent intervals during July, August and September when it is rainy. There is little rain from December to May, the time of the northeast and east-northeast trade winds.
Guam is poor in natural resources. Coconut trees formerly grew in abundance but were mostly destroyed during World War II. There is insufficient forestation to support production of lumber and fish have never been commercially developed to