THE
Page 5
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
PACIFIC ISLANDS
and Upolu, the small islands of Manono and Apolima, and several islets. It has an area of about 1,130 square miles and a population of 97,000 according to the 1956 census. The densest village population is on the north coast of Upolu, west of Apia, the political capital and commercial center of the territory.
The villages are trim, tidy and colorful, and consist of scores of round or oval fales raised on piles of scoria rubble two or three feet above the ground. During the day the detachable mats of coconut leaves, which at night serve as walls to keep out chill breezes, are rolled up, and the interior is open to the full view of the village.
There are flourishing tree ferns and coconut, hard wood, and rubber trees. The fertile soil yields taro, breadfruit, cacao pineapples, oranges, bananas, and yame. The chief export is copra.
Most Samoans live within an aiga system, or large family group, which is headed by a matai. The matai is elected by common consent of the aiga members. Any member is eligible if he has proved himself to be of sufficient character and ability.
In 1956 there were in Western Samoa 103 village elementary and primary schools, and one college with 156 students. New Zealand gives scholarships every year and encourage Samoans to govern themselves.
American Samoa
The treaty of 1899 awarded to the United States the island of Tutuila, the three small hilly islands which comprise the Manua group, and the isolated uninhabited Rose island. To these was added Swain’s Island, occupied for many years by an American. Eli Jennings purchased it in 1850 and became chief of its hundred or more people. The island passed from one generation of Jennings to another and was always supposed to be an American possession. In 1922 it was discovered that it had never been annexed and Congress in 1924, made good this oversight by declaring it to belong to the United States. The Rose island, an atoll, a coral reef near Samoa is probably the smallest American possession. The American Samoa has an area of 76 square miles and a population of 21,500 according to the 1956 census.
Tutuila is an elevated, mountainous, volcanic island with a broken coastline twenty-five miles long. The naval base is at the head of the deep indentation in the south coast forming the spacious harbor of Pago Pago. The island has steep slopes, heavily wooded to their summits. The coast is cliffed and irregular so that villages are often at the head of inlets and at times in fertile inland valleys.
The general economy and the subsistence agriculture of American Samoa are similar to those of Western Samoa. Taro, yams and breadfruit are the chief native food crops, and pineapples, oranges and bananas are grown for sale in Pago Pago. Copra is the only commercial product. Cultivation of cacao has been introduced as a source of income as well as coffee which is being planted. The authorities are encouraging weaving, woodcarving, fish cannery and other small industries.
There are about seventy miles of roads, telephones, radio station, libraries, newspapers, and primary, elementary and vocational schools. Scholarships are given to teachers to study in Honolulu or in the United States mainland. But teachers must return to the territory and teach for a minimum of two years.
The United States administers the islands through the American Governor. The Fono, the advisory legislative body, is composed of the House of Representatives and the Senate. The former has seventeen members elected by universal suffrage and secret ballot, and the Senate fifteen members chosen from among the chiefs by traditional councils of each county in accordance with Samoan custom. All sessions are conducted in the Samoan language, and all records, reports and resolutions are translated into English.
Today the United States is taking steps (1) to transform the Fono from an advisory to a limited law-making organ; (2) to transfer government responsibility and authority to trained Samoans; (3) to grant a larger measure of administration responsibility to village, county and district councils. The Governor has established a policy of appointing as district governors and county chiefs, those Samoans who have been selected by their communities.
The Governor of American Samoa and the High Commissioner of Western Samoa established in 1956 an Inter-Samoa Consultative Committee for the consideration of common interests. In April of 1956, an American Samoan delegation attended the Third South Pacific Conference held in Suva, Fiji.
American Samoa is making progress in every direction. In economic and social affairs its advances are definitely on the march.
Canton Island
Canton Island has a special significance to Pan American World Airways.
When service to New Zealand and Australia was being planned, it was necessary to find “stepping stones” — refueling bases between Honolulu and the countries down under. One inhabited island group was available, the French colony of New Caledonia, and this was selected for one intermediate base, but still another was needed between that one and Honolulu.
On a detailed map of the Pacific the Pan American planners then spotted a cluster of tiny islands named Canton, Howland, and Jarvis, within practical flying range of Honolulu. No one knew at that time who owned them. Old clipper ship logs and records of Marine litigation were unearthed. They indicated that American sailing vessels, a century ago, returning from the Far East, had sometimes made these wild islands a point of call. Their masters had even established the right to take on cargoes of guano from Canton before proceeding, via Cape Horn, to New York. Of the three islands only Canton had a protected lagoon, suitable for flying boats, and Pan American wanted it. On the basis of this ancient guano trade Pan American urged Washington to hold the desert islands, rediscovered by modern airmen, as American territory. The British meanwhile had not been napping. They also began to stake out claims.
Washington helped and an unarmed subchaser was dispatched from Samoa. Pan American construction crews went along and landing at Canton Island, immediately set to work laying out concrete stakes in the sand to mark off an airport.
“Two days after their arrival,” writes Mr. Matthew Josephson in his interesting book Empire of the Air, “a large Australian
Aerial view of Wake Island showing the housing area.