Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
AUDIO VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section, New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
SOUTH PACIFIC ISLAND CHILDREN (Life in Fiji) — Sd. 11 min. color Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
This film portrays the life of the Di-Vara family who live on Viti-Leon, largest island on the Fiji group. It shows many of their activities — how they fish, attend school, tend their garden and construct a house. The importance of the cocoanut palm to the islanders is demonstrated and we are shown a “fish drive” which ends in a feast and a native dance along the shore.
LIFE IN SAMOA — Sd. 11 min. color -Cine-Pic Hawaii, 1847 Fort St., Honolulu 13, Hawaii.
This film depicts the daily routine life of the Samoans. It features a colorful marriage ceremony, the feast and native dances.
GUAM — Sd. 10 min. b & w color — Library Films, 35 West 45th St., New York City.
A pre-World War II film picturing the life and customs of the people of Guam, which may serve as background for discussion re the Guam of today under the United States.
MIDWAY AND WAKE - Sd. 10 min. b Sc w color — Library Films, 35 West 45th St., New York City.
Emphasis upon the scenic and biologic wonders of the islands, particularly bird life and tropical fish.
MOANA — silent 1 hour 20 min. b & w — Museum of Modern Art, 11 W. 53rd St., New York City.
This is an outstanding documentary film, directed and photographed by Robert Flaherty. It is a study of South Sea life showing traditional manner of hunting, fishing, feasting and lovemaking in Samoa, ending with the ceremonial of the tattoo, by which male Samoans were formerly initiated into manhood.
THE FORBIDDEN ISLANDS - Sd. 21 min. color — Martin Moyer Productions, 900 Federal Ave., Seattle 2, Washington.
A documentary film story of the Fijian people, who live in villages by the sea; and still cling to the ancient communal social system of their forebears. A map secpience locates the archipelago in the Pacific. Native men, women and children are observed at work, school and play. In one scene the village women are seen collecting food from stream, reef and lagoon.
HINDUS IN PARADISE - Sd. 22 min. color — Martin Moyer Productions, 900 Federal Ave., Seattle 2, Washington.
A very interesting and informative film about the Indians, Hindus, brought into the
Fiji Islands in the late 1800’s, to work as coolie laborers. Within the last few years they have become the dominant race in the land of their adoption. Today, the Indians exceed in population the total of all other combined races. They brought to the Islands their customs, foods, languages and religion.
WESTERN SAMOA - Sd. 20 min. color -Martin Moyer Productions, 900 Federal Ave., Seattle 2, Washington.
The subject matter of this film will appeal to those who admire the works of Robert Louis Stevenson. Vailima, his home, and his tomb at the summit of Mt. Vaea are seen. The sound track records the words of Stevenson’s “Requiem”. The film shows the geographical, historical and social significance of the people whom Stevenson called “God’s best — His sweetest work”.
FIJI — Sd. 20 min. color — Martin Moyer Productions, 900 Federal Ave., Seattle 2, Washington.
The story establishes the “COCONUT PALM” as the “Tree of Life” for the natives of the South Seas. Its uses are common to all people in the South Pacific, who are seen using the tree and the fruit it bears in a multitude of uses. Copra, which provides for their economy, is also thoroughly explained.
PACIFIC ISLANDS OF WORLD WAR II — Sd. 28 min. color — Modern Talking Pictures Service, Inc. 45 Rockefeller Plaza, NYC.
Shows present-day conditions and changes since the war in the islands where battles occurred in the war. Battle scenes are also shown which were filmed by combat photographers.
FIJI AND SAMOA, THE CANNIBAL ISLES — Sd. — si. 10 min. b & w — James A. Fitzpatrick Travel Pictures, 8624 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 46, Calif.
This film depicts the islands where white men have effected remarkable changes on a people who were cannibals just two generations ago. There are scenes in Samoa of Robert Louis Stevenson and his home where he spent the last years of his life among the Polynesians.
THE PACIFIC - DISCOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT - Sd. 11 min. color -Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, 111. '
Shows the role played by the Pacific Ocean in international affairs; the growth of man’s knowledge of the Pacific Traces the settlement of some of the islands and coastal areas by British, Russians, Germans, French, Dutch, ahd Americans and the establishment of political control by these nations.
PACIFIC ISLAND - Sd. 18 min. b & w -McGraw-Hill Textfilm Division, 330 W. 42nd St., New York, N. Y.
Produced by Julien Bryan, this film documents the life of the peoples of a typical coral island in the Pacific area, Liklep, one of the Marshall Island group. One sees the inhabitants of the island practicing the art of navigation, building a boat, basketweaving, caring for their thatched homes, conducting a fishing expedition, attending school and at worship. The final sequence shows a birthday feast of one of the islanders.
(Ed. Note: Although this film does not deal directly with the islands under consideration, it is recommended for its excellent photography and scenes of native life in a similar region.)
Filmstrips
SURVIVAL IN THE SOUTH PACIFIC -80 frames — Sd. b & w — Government Films Dept., United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York, N. Y.
Produced by the U. S. Navy. This filmstrip is accompanied by a disc recording, 2 sides, 16 in. 33-1/3 rpm., playing time, 15 minutes.
It tells how to obtain water and food, build a fire, construct a shelter. It also tells how to get along with natives and protect one’s self if forced down on an island.
COLONIAL EMPIRE: INTRODUCING THE PACIFIC ISLANDS - Si. with captions — 39 frames — British Information Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y.
This filmstrip describes the lives of the people living in the British Pacific dependencies which comprise some thousands of islands scattered over the Pacific Ocean.
Recordings
Music Of The Pacific Islands
Folkways Records, 117 W. 46th St., NYC, 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
The music of the Pacific area is very western in acculturation. Only among the older people is there a semblance of the original styles.
Some institutions that have documented this music include The Bishop Museum in Hawaii, The Museum of the University of Pennsylvania and the Peabody Museum in Salem, Massachusetts.
At this time, Dr. Donald Stanley Marshall of the Peabody Museum is in the Polynesian area documenting material for Folkways Records; a project begun last year with early recordings already made. He is interviewing the older men and adding to the recordings now on hand and the project will be completed in the spring of 1958 when this longplay record album of Music Of The Pacific Islands will be issued.
There are many synthetic recordings on the market which were recorded mainly in the U.S. with westernized themes and arrangements.