PA.IV AME RICA.IV
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page T-3
TRAVEL REPORT
(Continued from page T-2) fords an opportunity to visit castles. One of the most imposing is Frederiksborg, built in several stages by early Danish kings, now a museum with its beautiful chapel as originally built and decorated, and its lavish Knights’ Hall, once destroyed by fire, restored to a condition of magnificence equalling the original.
A castle of special interest is Kronberg at Elsinore, often called Hamlet’s Castle. The real Prince Hamlet did not live, at Kronberg Castle, but in another part of Denmark, and before this castle was built. But Shakespeare is thought to have visited Kronberg with a company of players from England — castle records suggest that he did. And he has Ophelia refer to a little flower — the rue — which is almost unknown in Denmark, but does grow at Kronberg. A sightseeing guide showed us the little plants, growing out of cracks in a wall, and recalled that Ophelia labeled it a “herb of grace o’ Sundays” and said that “you must wear your rue with a difference.”
International Student Center. A summer vacation center for students from all over the world is maintained in Hald Hovedgard, a castle originally constructed in the 13th century, and several times rebuilt.
To keep the rates low, vacationing students help with the work, both the housekeeping and permanent improvement projects. One of the latter was undertaken during a recent summer by a group of American and Jugoslavian students who repaired the park pavillions. Other groups have undertaken repairs of the main building, others have cleared weed patches and made them part of the park. And so on.
In a completely informal atmosphere, Scandinavian students live with their contemporaries from many other countries — talk, exchange ideas, and pursue the studies in which they are especially interested.
Established in 1951, the student center is autonomous, but maintains an office at the University of Copenhagen, and inquiries may be directed to Knud Dalberg, DIS, SCT, PedersStraede 19, Copenhagen, Denmark.
SCOTLAND
En route to Edinburgh we met three Scottish travelling salesmen who, when they discovered they were talking to Americans, took delight in pointing out landmarks and telling us about their country.
One of them interrupted his own, or his companion’s remarks, at frequent intervals, to point to a plain or hillside and exclaim, “We fought them all day there and whipped them too,” referring, of course, to battles of his own clan with its enemies, three centuries ago.
Another told us his family was part of one of the great clans, but his great-great-great grandfather committed a nefarious act. To put it bluntly, the ancestor in question ran away with his brother’s wife, “So we’ve been Smiths since that time,” our friend said.
We told them we had Scottish ancestors with an unusual .name — Nimocks. Did they know the name?
No, but if we’d go to Lawrie’s on Princess Street in Edinburgh, they’d look it up for us and sell us neckties, scarves, or the kilts themselves, in the tartan of our clan.
So we repaired to Lawrie’s when we got to Edinburgh. Nimocks was not on the list, but there was a Sept (sub-division of a Clan) with the name Nimmo. We decided that should be close enough. The Nimmo folks were first in the Mackay Clan, later joined the Gunns. So we bought a necktie of the Gunn tartan. This sort of inquiry may be undertaken in New York City in a shop in Radio City, and possibly elsewhere in the United States, too. But, of course, it’s much more fun to do it in Scotland.
Castles are in evidence in Edinburgh, as in most of Europe. We visited Edinburgh Castle and Hollyroodhouse Palace.
Edinburgh Castle sits on a lofty hill overlooking Princess Street, and the steep cliffs falling away from its walls must have made it just about impregnable in medieval times. Until a few years ago, Edinburgh Castle was a troop garrison — now it houses the Paymaster for the armed forces, a museum, and a beautiful memorial to Scots who fell in World War I.
Hollyrood house is the present-day residence, in Scotland, of the British sovereign. But part of it — once the living quarters of Mary Queen of Scots, now is a museum.
Since the Queen was not in residence, we were shown through the present day drawing rooms, the state dining room and the throne room. The throne room and the drawing rooms are furnished with chairs and benches covered with tapestries made by the ladies of Scotland, and included are tapestries made by both of Elizabeth’s grandmothers.
* * *
Already popular with tourists, Scotland intends to make itself even more so. While we were in Edinburgh, the Scotland Tourist Board announced plans for chair lifts to the summit of Ben Nevis or the Caringorm peaks, mountain top restaurants and big estates run in the style of American “dude ranches”. Hoteliers and vacation organizers meeting in Edinburgh were told that there had been a notable increase in interest in pony trek-
king — the Highland pony had been in danger of extinction, but now there are a dozen centers equipped for the activity and they catered to more than 5,000 persons last year. Another sport recently introduced in Scotland is water skiing, now an attraction at Lochearnhead.
HOME AGAIN
Our-do-it-yourself tour ended with a bus ride from Edinburgh to Glasgow, where we went to board the Clipper to go home. On the Super 7 Clipper it is a thirteen hour non-stop flight from Prestwick to Idlewild. The airplane was fully loaded — we were assigned the last two seats.
If this keeps up there won’t be any “offseason” any more.
Sunrise from the Nightingale
by Mrs. Kent Kessler
Mrs. Kessler, a social studies teacher at Weston High School, Weston, W. Va., was winner of the first prize — an all-expense trip to Tokyo and Hong Kong —in Scholastic Teacher’s Wings over the Pacific travel contest.
I think God shook our plane a bit To rouse me from my slumber,
He had a masterpiece to hang,
And I could share its wonder.
He let me watch the Heavens Bring forth a clean, new day,
Splash it in golds and orange Across the heavy gray.
As if to be its sentinels Majestic clouds strode by Puffed up in regal splendor —
The courtiers of the sky.
While all around, young, frisky clouds In sheerest ecstacy,
Danced by their somber elders,
In movements gay and free.
As if in partnership with them,
Our motors seemed to say,
“A wondrous gift, from God to you,
. . . How shall you use this day?”
Kintail, Scotland — overlooking Loch-Duich with the Five Sisters Mountains in the
background.