Page 3
BY FLYING CUPPER TO
THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
ACROSS THE PACIFIC
by Enrique Portes
November 22, 1935! That was the date set for the official inauguration of the Pacific air mail service. By two o’clock that afternoon 150,000 people had assembled along the shores of the bay to watch the take-off of the China Clipper. The ceremony was described over an international radio hook-up. James Farley, Postmaster General, presided at the speaker’s stand in Alameda, but addressed himself to Honolulu, Manila, and other points on the globe. After Mr. Farley’s address the radio came on: “Honolulu calling San Francisco.” The Governor of Hawaii spoke: “Hawaii is no longer isolated by twenty-four hundred miles of sea.” Then came the word: “Manila calling San Francisco,” and President Quezon spoke: “From the other side of the world to you, Postmaster General Farley, and to you, Mr. Trippe, the people of the East send greetings — across the breadth of the ocean which, since the beginning, has been a barrier separating the peoples of the East and of the West. Today . . . the arrival of the Flying Clipper ships will finally sweep away that barrier of time and space forever.”
Then Juan Trippe, President of Pan American Airways, spoke: “Postmaster General Farley, I have the honor to report, sir, that the transpacific airway is ready to carry the first air mail for the United States Post Office on the mainland, across the Pacific, to the Philippines.” And he added: “Captain Musick, you have your sailing orders. Cast off and depart for Manila in accordance therewith.”
The China Clipper taxied out into the great harbor, white spray dashing from her sides. She swept past the thousands cheering, the boats whistling, and, with throttle wide open, climbed past the unfinished East Bay bridge, circled in leisurely salute to the crowd, then gained height and flew westward. Hour by hour the world press and radio followed her flight, until three and a half days later the operator at Manila wirelessed: “China Clipper landing, on schedule, fifty-nine hours, fifty minutes flying time.” Captain Musick, called to the microphone, simply said dryly: “Without incident.”
This is the way Matthew Josephson describes this great moment in his fascinating book Empire of the Air.
To cross the Pacific, regularly, by air was a real achievement. The Pacific is a mighty ocean, largest in the world. It occupies one-third of the earth’s surface and contains a half of its water area. According to one explanation of the origin of this greatest of natural features, it is the hole left when a piece of the earth’s surface became loose in geological times and flew off to form the moon. However it might have been formed, the Pacific is a restless area. Its margin is a mountain zone with many volcanoes and frequent earthquakes. Subterranean disturbances send great tidal waves across its surface.
Scattered over the southwest quarter of the Pacific like stars across the sky are
thousands of islands, no one knows just how many. Some are almost as big as Texas, others so small that they have enough space only for a few palm trees. The world of islands is frequently called Oceania, the land of the South Sea Isles.
Two imaginary lines divide the ocean roughly into quarters, the equator and the International Date Line. The equator separates the northern from the southern hemisphere and also those who have been shaved by Old Father Neptune while crossing the line and those who have not. The Date Line is where the days officially begin and end. Flying west in an airplane you may go out of one day and into the next. You leave Canton Island on Thursday and arrive a few hours later at the Fijis on Friday even though no night has intervened. Going east from the Fijis you fly right back into Thursday. On ships that travel more slowly, the adjustment is made at midnight. If you sail toward Asia and cross the Line on Thursday, the next day on shipboard will be Saturday; in the opposite direction you will have to repeat the day and have two Thursdays before you get to Friday.
It took two hundred years for Oceania to be completely known. After Magellan other explorers came in search of the unknown land of the south. During the sixteenth century the explorers were mostly Spanish and Portuguese. The English and Dutch established a foothold in the seven-
teenth. France and Russia in the eighteenth. In the nineteenth century Germany, Japan and the United States entered the Pacific trade. After the Second World War the United States acquired trusteeship of many former Japanese islands. The islands of the Pacific Ocean have become of paramount importance with the development of the airplane. Every island is a welcome sign for those who are crossing the vast oceans of the world.
The Fijis
More than t»vo hundred years ago the Fijians were the most savage cannibals in Melanesia. They were in a continuous war; the roasting ovens were the inevitable end for all captives as well as for the unfortunate sailor who happened to be cast up on these shores. Today there is no more peaceful region in the Pacific. Paganism and savagery are things of the past.
In 1874 Great Britain annexed the Fijis as a Crown Colony pledging that the native owners would always keep their land. The Crown Colony is a fine example of British colonial efforts in the Pacific; it is also the insular hub and crossroads of the southwestern part of the ocean. Fiji is to the southwest Pacific and to Australia and New Zealand what Hawaii is to the north Pacific and to the North American continent. Like Hawaii, Fiji is a considerable source of tropical produce, a market for manufacturing goods and processed foodstuffs, a stop on trans-Pacific journeys, strategic outpost, advanced air base and winter tourist resort.
Fiji (or Viti) is an archipelago comprising some 7,000 square miles and about 345,000 inhabitants in 1955. There are 250
Ewing Galloway
Suva, Seaport town, located on the southeast coast of Vita Levu Island, in the Fiji Island group. It is the capital of the Fiji colony, an attractive, well-built town, having one of the finest harbors in the South Pacific. The picture shows Cumming's Street, known as the Street of all Nations.