Page T-2
PA.IV AME RICAIV
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways
George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1957, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
TRAVEL REPORT
(<Continued fro?n page T-l)
turies. A parliament hall of the 1700’s is included — another from the 1800’s and one may see the study of Henrik Ibsen.
Universitetet i Oslo. The old buildings of the University are on Karl Johans Gate in the center of town — a new center is located at Blindern — ten minutes from the center of the city.
Of special interest to Americans is the Summer School for American Students, in session each year for six weeks in July and August. Dr. Philip Boardman is Managing Director. Courses of study include a general survey of Norwegian culture, the Humanities (Norwegian history, language, literature, art, music and human geography), international relations, social studies, education in Norway, graduate courses in education, literature and society, physical education in Norway (a graduate level course) and industries of Norway.
Applications for admission are taken by the Oslo Summer Sessions Admissions Office at 94, Olaf College, Northfield, Minnesota.
Oslo’s attractions are many and varied and one I’ll never forget is a porter. He carried five bags for us and I tendered a 5 kroner note (70 cents). He thanked me and handed me change, a Danish 2 kroner coin, so I’d have some Danish money on arrival in Copenhagen.
DENMARK
Our first impression of Denmark was that we were about to be engulfed and finished off once and for all in a tidal wave of bicycles. They far outnumber automobiles, and at the rush hour they roll down Hans Christian Andersen Boulevard, and other major streets, in noiseless, relentless streams. But we quickly discovered that the Dane is one of the world’s most conservative and law-abiding cyclist. He always gives the hand signals for turns and stops, and like as not will pause to give a pedestrian the right of way. And he or she is likely to be a dignified middle aged business man, or a housewife with a market bag, or a school teacher.
Bicycles comprise a major means of routine transportation, and the down town parking
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
problem is for bicycles, as much as or even more than for automobiles.
* * *
The Dane is friendly and good natured.
Example: One afternoon during our visit in Copenhagen we bought some fine Danish cheese to take back to our hotel room for a snack. Then, on the way back to the hotel, we decided to stop at the New Carlsberg Glyptotek, which is the sculpture museum. Presently we were heading into the room housing Egyptian mummies — still carrying the package from the cheese store.
A guard smiled and said: “Bringing some food to the mummies?”
The Dane is hospitable, and zealous to see that his tourist friends are treated as honored guests.
Example: Mrs. Gardner boarded a tram going in the direction opposite from her desired destination. When she discovered her mistake she already had paid her fare of 55 ore, or about four cents. But she thought she’d just forfeit the ore, and prepared to leave at the next stop. A fellow passenger would have none of this. He took issue vigorously with the conductor, maintaining that the fare should be refunded. The conductor, having issued a receipt, shook his head NO. The argument was still in progress when the car stopped and Mrs. Gardner disembarked.
Upon arrival in Copenhagen, we checked in at the Hotel Europa, Copenhagen’s first skyscraper (17 stories) in mid-morning — unpacked and took a “taxa” to a place we’d been anticipating, the Oskar Davidsen restaurant. The menu at Davidsen’s is four feet long, Danish on one side and English on the other. It lists sandwiches only —177 of them.
No. 47 is the PAA Clipper Sandwich. It’s raw scraped beef, export caviar and smoked
salmon. Not being a fan for raw scraped beef, I went on to No. 48, listed as “Hans Andersen’s Favourite”, which is crisp bacon, tomato, liverpaste with truffles, meat-jelly and horseradish. Others are less exotic — plain cheese, meat, fish or fowl. That four foot menu, obviously, is a unique souvenir, and we carried one home with us.
From Davidsen’s we went to town Hall Square to board a bus for the City Sightseeing Tour. It’s a good tour. Copenhagen offers interesting sights to see, like Amalien-borg Palace, the city residence of King Fred-erik IX, Christiansborg Palace where the Danish Parliament meets, Grundtvig’s Church, erected in memory of Bishop Grundtvig, poet and scholar and founder of the local high schools.
But the Educational Director and Mrs. Gardner like to explore on foot, window shop, stop for meals whenever and wherever fancy dictates, and Copenhagen is fine for this, with its neat and well-stocked shops, its parks, lakes and canals, its Bohemian area in which the Hans Christian Andersen home is located, also places to have fun (“if you want to dance and have some fun, the place to go is Forty-one”).
Denmark is an agricultural country, and it is enjoyable to drive through the countryside and see the dairy, pig and grain farms. Danish pigs may be the world’s finest — the Danes think they are. Denmark exports ham and other pork products, but not live pigs, because the Danes want to confine their pig blood lines to their own country. We were told that pigs now outnumber Danes in Denmark —7i/2 million pigs to 4i/i> million Danes.
Those Danish pigs convert into delicious hams, all right. A notable luncheon was ham and eggs at Frascati’s in Town Hall Square.
Travel through the countryside also af-(Continued on page T-3)
Nyhavn Canal, Copenhagen, Denmark