Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle-Portland are the gateways for travel by air to islands in the Pacific.
Gateway, in this case, means a point of departure for an aerial journey from the mainland of the United States to a point overseas. Like many others, the word has taken on a new meaning in the Air Age.
Departing from one of these Pacific Coast aerial gateways for either the Orient, or the South Pacific, we will travel to some of the islands which are the subject of this unit — if we are using the route via Honolulu. On the newer Great Circle route from the Pacific Coast to Japan, the flight is direct.
Scheduled flying across the Pacific began in 1935, and at that time there were more island way stations than there are today, because the aircraft of the thirties required more frequent stops for refueling than the long range aircraft now in service. And the trend is toward elimination of these intermediate stops — as on the new Great Circle route from Los Angeles and San Francisco direct to Tokyo.
The islands which are the subject of this unit could easily disappear from the world air route network as newer aircraft with still longer ranges are introduced, except where there is reason for the aircraft to make stops to serve the islands themselves.
We are considering in this unit the following Pacific Islands: Wake and Guam in the North Pacific; Canton, Fiji and Samoa in the South Pacific. Of these, Wake -and Canton were barren, uninhabited and lonely up until the time that they became intermediate stops for air service, and it may be assumed that air line aircraft of the future will pass them by when stops are not required to refuel. They won’t be entirely uninhabited, because they will have weather reporting stations and radio stations, but air service to them will be in-
frequent. Airplanes will land only when workers are being brought in or out, or supplies are being delivered.
Guam, Fiji and Samoa are larger, and were populated for many years before tire airplanes came. Regular air service to these islands will continue, but it will be less frequent, and there will be express schedules which will not include them.
On the other hand, the air line schedules which continue to serve islands of the Pacific doubtless will carry more and more people to them, as the charms and attractions of these pleasant islands become better known. Vacationers of the future will find it as easy and convenient to visit Guam and Samoa, as it is now to go to Hawaii (which is the subject of another World Airways Teacher Study Unit). No doubt other Pacific Islands, not now served by air lines, will be added to the “local” air network, which will be a “local” service with the stops a thousand and more miles apart.
Whatever their future may be, the islands of this study unit, plus several others, have a firm place in the history of aviation in the Pacific.
Let’s retrace some of the steps that were taken to establish an air network in the Pacific.
In the early thirties, Pan American World Airways was laying plans for inaugurating scheduled air service across both the Atlantic and the Pacific. Atlantic service probably would have come first, except that it was necessary there to obtain landing rights, in other words, to get permission of the European countries to bring aircraft to their territory and land them there.
When it became apparent that these necessary permissions could not be had immediately, the PAA planners turned their attention to the Pacific, because on the biggest ocean of all it was possible to go
almost all the way across without ever landing on foreign soil.
Across the mid-Pacific, somewhat to the north of the equator, there is a series of islands, all flying the American flag, which offered the opportunity for flights within the range of the aircraft then available for ocean flying. They were not located exactly at the spots the planners would have chosen for an ideal air route, but they were close enough.
Longest flight on this original air route, established in November 1935, was from San Francisco to Honolulu — 2,400 miles. From Honolulu, the route led in a northwesterly direction to Midway Island, then known only as a relay station for the Pacific Cable Company — later to become famous as the location of the naval-aerial battle which was an important turning point in the Pacific phase of World War II.
After Midway, the next step on that original Pacific air route was Wake Island, known only to the birds and a very few mariners, prior to the coming of the Clippers. Wake Island, too, became famous in the Pacific war.
West of Wake, the next stop on the original Pacific route was Guam. After Guam came Manila, in the Philippine Islands. At that time the Philippines, now independent, were U. S. territory.
All of these islands were U. S. territory, so an American flag air line could fly to them without question. Thus, the original trans-Pacific route, was Hawaii-Midway-Wake-Guam-Philippines. Then landing rights were obtained for the British crown colony of Hong Kong, on the coast of China, and the trans-Pacific service was extended to Hong Kong.
In the South Pacific, air service began in 1941, first to New Zealand, and later to Australia as well.
(Continued on page 8)