Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Ewing Galloway
Guam — Native school in the village of Umatac, on Guam, the largest island in the Marianas group. These children learn as much about America and its traditions as the average of their cousins in the mainland.
islands of which 80 are populated. Viti Levu, the largest, is the seat of Suva, capital of the Colony. The other important islands are Vanua Levu, Taveuni, Kandavu, Ngau, Ovalau and Koro. In the center of the group is the Koro Sea, east of which are the Lau islands.
The larger islands are volcanic and mountainous. The highest peak — Mount Victoria, 4341 feet — is on Viti Levu which also has the largest river, the Rewa. Viti contains most of the Indians and many of the native population. In a cove on the southwest coast, protected by coral reefs, is the harbor of Suva, one of the commercial hubs of the central Pacific, the seat of British government in the Pacific, and headquarters for some of the great trading firms. From the Suva docks go out copra, bananas, and sugar. Warehouses are loaded with goods for shipment all over the Pacific and supplies for the productive gold fields of the interior mountains.
Suva is an engaging town, its streets lined with pepper trees and its parks and grounds gorgeous with tropical flowers. The broad verandas and attentive Indian waiters of the Grand Pacific Hotel make it one of the famous stopping places in Oceania. Indians own practically every shop, the city swarms with taxis, all driven by Indians. The Fijians one can usually see, are the policemen.
There are dense forests on the windward sides of the islands, and grassy plains and hot springs in the mountain region. The fertile soil yields sugar cane, tropical fruits, taro, rice, cotton, pineapples, and cassava. When sugar cultivation was started Fijians showed little taste for the hard monotonous work of the fields. Laborers from India were brought in — now there are more Indians than Fijians.
The island group was discovered in 1643 by Tasman, and the missionaries arrived in 1835 and helped abolish cannibalism. At the time of its discovery the archipelago was occupied by tall, dark-skinned negroid Melanesians. Coastal communities had their fleets of out-rigger canoes for transport and for fishing in the lagoon and on the open sea. Each family had its own house site.
Three traditional concepts permeated both the economic activities and the social life of the Fijian community. Lala meant the mutual aid and the communal work rendered by all physically fit members of the community. The building of mbiire, the tidying of the village, the maintenance of the canoe fleet and of footpaths were communal responsibilities assigned by the village council and headman. Kerekere referred to the sharing of goods and food and the entertaining of visitors. Kerekere was a method of protecting the needy, an indigenous system of social security found in a variety of forms throughout the Pacific. The third concept was the chiefly right to extract tribute, especially from outsiders allowed to settle on the land of the community.
Much of this traditional way of life is still found amongst Fijians living on the outlying islands. In general Fijians are cheerful and delightful people notwithstanding the somewhat terrifying aspect of their upstanding kinky hair and big white teeth. They love their leisure and like to play hard or fight hard.
“They have beautiful resonant voices”; writes a traveler, “when a group of a dozen singers serenade a cruise ship, coins rain down on them from the decks. A choir of trained voices forms such perfect harmony that it sounds like a church organ.
As policemen, they are wonderful and
their colorful uniform of blue tunic, white notched skirt, and brilliant red sash somehow does not seem incongruous with bare feet and legs.
In Suva the City Council administers the local Carnegie Library. There is a museum of Polynesian and Melanesian ethnology and a Fiji Art Club. Fiji has a daily newspaper in English and seven weekly and monthly periodicals in one or two of the three languages: Fijian, Hindi and English. The Fijian, Indian and European communities represent three separate cultures.
The population is undergoing a fundamental change of structure as a result of the more rapid growth of the Indian group than that of the Fijians. As to education the school system comprises Fijian schools, Indian schools, European schools and multiracial schools and most of them are coeducational. Fiji is an archipelago where people live in peace and visitors are always welcome.
The Samoa Island Group
Samoa presents the example of a group of high volcanic islands, with smaller islands off their shores, all close together in terms of Pacific distances, with similar geological, climatic and biological characteristics. These islands are inhabited by Polynesians of similar culture, history, language and tradition; yet they are divided and set apart under two different administrations — the New Zealand administration at Apia (Upolu) and the United States administration at Pago Pago (Tu-tuila). The group, midway between Honolulu and Sydney, comprises in a 350-mile chain, ten principal inhabited islands and several uninhabited islets. It was formerly called Navigators’ Islands.
Discovered in 1722 by the Dutchman, Roggeveen, and visited later by the French navigators, Bougainville and La Permise, the Samoan group was practically unnoticed until visited by John Williams in 1830, more than one hundred years after the Dutch. Williams was welcomed by the native faction then in power.
The Samoans accepted only such of the new religion as they could fit into their traditional custom and way of life. As to the commercial system of the west, they accepted what they liked and rejected what they disliked. The Western Powers tried to control them, but in general the foreign countries left the Samoans little disturbed. By agreement in 1899 Samoa w^as partitioned between the Germans and the Americans, the United States taking Tutuila and its naval base and coaling station at Pago Pago, and the Germans retaining Upolu and Savai’i. Britain withdrew.
German rule was short-lived. In 1914 New Zealand troops were landed in Western Samoa, and occupied it until 1921, when New Zealand restored civil administration to a territory which was then a C class mandate of the League of Nations conferred on Great Britain and administered on its behalf by New Zealand. In 1946 Western Samoa became the first trusteeship territory of the United Nations. The territory comprises the two large islands of Savai’i