Page 9
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: How has the “Air Age” increased the importance of these Pacific
Islands?
A.	Reasons for Selection:
1.	Current events focus attention on places which up till now were just dots on the map.
2.	Events in World War II made some of these islands quite famous.
3.	Picture of inhabitants of places like the Fiji Islands create a desire to know more about them.
4.	The airplane is making it possible for us to become better acquainted with these islands.
5.	An interest in possessions of the United States.
II.	PROBLEM DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Use the story of the 30th birthday of the Pan American Flying Clippers.
2.	Study the possessions of the United States.
3.	Recount the part played in World War II.
4.	Review explorations and discoveries of well known explorers.
5.	Discuss a book listed in the Bibliography.
6.	Use visual aids listed in this issue.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why are these islands called Pacific “stepping stones”?
2.	How are events in the world today increasing their importance?
3.	What role have they played in the history of America?
4.	What are their potentialities for future use and development?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:
GUAM — largest, most populous of Marianas; first Pacific Island owned by Europeans; Mt. Lamlam, highest peak; cities of Apia, Agafia, Piti, Agana; under jurisdiction of Department of Interior; Governor, House of Council, House of Assembly; copra, chief product; discovered 1521 by Magellan; ceded to U.S. 1898; captured by Japan 1941, retaken 1944; used as U.S. naval station; native Chamorros; closed to foreign vessels except by permit.
WAKE — islands of Wilkes, Peale, Wake; jurisdiction of U.S. Navy; coral; acquired 1898; captured by Japan 1941; Commander Charles Wilkes, Major James P. Devereux; long uninhabited; U.S. naval and air station.
FIJI — 320 islands; British Crown Colony 1874; Viti Levu, largest island; Suva, capital; Koro Sea, Rewa River;
Tasman, Captain Cook, Thakombau, Wilkes; Mt. Victoria, highest peak; formerly cannibals; first white settlement.
SAMOA — called Navigators Island; Apia, Upolu, Saluafata, Tutuila, Manua, Swains, Pago Pago; Polynesians; Jacob Roggeveen, Williams, Bougainville, Wilkes, Meade; copra; home of Robert Louis Stevenson; Eono, assembly of senate and lower house; first trusteeship of United Nations; Rose Island, smallest American possession; Eli Jennings bought Swain’s Island; U.S. Naval Base. CANTON — plane base and aviation station; Mary Island; English and American; part of Phoenix group; an atoll.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue.
b.	Literature: read about Robert Louis Stevenson and his home in Samoa; read some of the books listed in this issue.
c.	Oral communication: talking over what was read; discussing reasons for growth in importance of these islands; asking questions to get more information; inquiring from people who may have visited the islands; reporting on facts gathered.
d.	Written communication: writing for more information; contacting military personnel who may have been stationed here; planning an exciting and interesting trip from island to island; comparing the islands before World War II and
the present; writing colorful descriptions.
3.	Science: unusual variety of small tropical fish on Wake, sea birds, rats, crabs; jungles of Guam; earthquakes, typhoons; coral and volcanic islands; Bos’n birds, booby birds, terns, on Canton, wild pigs, bats, rodents; lagoon; International Date Line.
4.	Art: carved ivories, sandalwood; Melanesian, Fiji Museums; murals and drawings made after information is gathered.
5.	Mathematics: estimate of time to reach island by ship and by plane; graphs showing increasing use made of islands by planes; distances to various islands from your home town; graphs showing increases in population and production.
6.	Health: study of living conditions, main foods, customs of inhabitants; gleaming white buildings in Fiji; swimming, fishing, barefoot rugby; fire walking ceremonies; tribal dances; problems of living and staying healthy on a small island.
B.	Skills: since material for this unit is not
found too easily, good judgment and
organization is needed in selection of
resources and recording of information.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An interest in life in small, distant settlements.
2.	An understanding of how use of these islands is necessary to the peace and welfare of the world.
3.	A realization of the fact that the
Ewing Gglloway
Guam — Primitive transportation with water buffalo, at ruins of a Spanish fort.