December 1957
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XIV No. 2
TRAVEL REPORT: NORWAY, DENMARK AND SCOTLAND
by George Gardner
To get some first-hand information on off-season vacationing, we decided to go to Europe in October and to visit Norway, Denmark and Scotland.
Actually, we found vacationers exploring all three countries. Their numbers were few enough that we had all the advantages that go with off-season travel — ease of making reservations, no crowding in hotels and restaurants, better opportunities to meet and talk to the Norwegians, the Danes and the Scots. But most of the sightseeing tours and other attractions were in active operation.
We departed from New York City’s International Airport in mid-afternoon on Pan American’s flight 40, which operates to Gander in Newfoundland, Keflavik in Iceland, Oslo, Stockholm and Helsinki.
Gander had freezing weather when we stopped there at 8:00 P.M.; Iceland was warmer, and somewhat damp, at 4:00 A.M. next morning. Iceland is farther north than Gander, but it enjoys the moderating influence of the Gulf Stream. As we thumbed through the booklets on the souvenir counter in the terminal at Keflavik, we promised ourselves we’d return some day to Iceland, to see such things as:
Hekla, Iceland’s famous volcano.
The hot springs, including Geysir (the Gusher) which has given its name to all geysers and to the British hot water heaters, spelled geyser and pronounced geezer. Hot water is piped 15 miles from the hot springs to the city of Reykjavik where it heats all the homes and business establishments.
The glaciers, the Golden Falls, the University of Iceland and the beautiful blonde girls wearing traditional Icelandic costumes.
But this time we had to reboard the Clipper and go on to our first stopover in Oslo.
NORWAY
Arriving in Norway on 15 October, we were later than the summer tourists and ahead of the ski enthusiasts. So, the first evening, when we took the tram to Frog-nerseteren, a half-hour from the heart of Olso and 1,600 feet higher, we shared the handsome big Frognerseteren Restaurant with no more than half a dozen other parties. We had a table right next to the huge fire place, and toasted our shins while we ate our
way through an a la carte presentation including a rich brown spicy consomme, grouse (for me), Viennacutlet (for Mrs. Gardner), dessert and coffee — all for Kr. 41.60, including service charge, which is less than six dollars for two.
In season, the restaurant caters to all sorts visitors — tourists, residents of Oslo, hikers in from the mountain trails, in winter the skiers, and serves anything from coffee and a snack to a dinner such as we enjoyed.
Sunshine is not overly plentiful in Oslo in October, but we had it when we went by bus — an hour and a half from Oslo through Krokskogen Forest to Sundvollen on Lake Tyrifjord in Ringerike.
Sundvollen is one of Norway’s famous ski centers. It attracts visitors in summer, too, for its breath-taking scenery and the fishing. But again, we were there between seasons, the ski lift was silent, with its chairs banked in the shed at the foot of Krokkleiva Gorge. We hiked up a ski trail just far enough to
get an idea of things —about one twenty-fifth of the way — then found another fine Norwegian restaurant for a leisurely luncheon.
Every visitor to Norway heads for the amazing sculpture collection in Frogner Park, as we did. Gustav Vigeland worked on it for thirty years, and there are 150 groups, humans and animals, covering 75 acres. Some are stone, others iron, wood or bronze. Dominating all is the towering monolith, covered with carved human figures.
The Folk Museum is a collection of historical Norwegian homes, implements, weapons, vehicles, boats and costumes, in the manner of Williamsburg and Old Sturbridge Village. Most of them have sod roofs, with grass growing robustly and battling with weeds. The oldest date back to 1700. There is a stav-church, its walls and roof covered with overlapping wooden staves which have remained weather-proof through the cen-(Cojitinued on page T-2)
Vigeland Park, Oslo, Norway