Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
plane has increased the potentialities of these islands.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A.	Things to Do:
1.	Locate the islands on large maps and plan routes from your home town to them. Use colored tape or ribbon to show the routes.
2.	Have someone who has visited the islands speak to the class.
3.	Collect pictures of the islands.
4.	Keep a bulletin board of news of the islands.
5.	Read some of the books listed.
6.	Make slides or a movie showing interesting places on the island.
7.	Explain the International Date Line graphically.
8.	Discuss the use of the islands in war and peace.
9.	Have a travel bureau. Display travel folders. Plan trips.
B.	Culmination:
1. Invite other classes to hear your reports on the islands.
2. Invite other classes to visit your travel bureau. Plan a trip for a member of the faculty.
3.	Any of the items in 5-A may be used as a culmination.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Pictures and magazines.
2.	Books.
3.	Personnel.
4.	Movies, strip films, slides.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
An interest in other islands which may be possessions of the United States or important to the welfare of the world.
LET’S REVIEW:
I. With which islands are		these names
connected?		
Captain James Cook	Louis de Bougainville	
Commander	Richard Meade	
Charles Wilkes	Major	
Ferdinand Magellan	James P. Devereux	
Jacob Roggeveen	Abel Janzoon Tasman	
Thakombau		
II. LOCATE:		
Guam		Rewa River
Wilkes		Mt. Victoria
Peale		Lantoka
Wake		Pago Pago
Apra		Tutuila
Mt. Lamían		Saluafata
Piti		Apia
Agana		Opulu
Viti Levu		Canton
Suva		Samoa
Koro Sea		Fiji
Lau		Agafia
III. General Questions:
1.	How many continents are linked by these Islands?
2.	What did Magellan name the islands?
3.	Why were they named the Marianas?
4.	Which island is the principal Pacific base of SAC?
5.	Which island is the largest?
6.	Who are Chamorros?
7.	What is the capital of Guam?
8.	Which department of the United States government is responsible for Guam?
9.	What department is responsible for Wake?
10.	Of what is Pago Pago the capital?
11.	On which island is Apia located?
12.	When did the U.S. acquire Wake?
13.	How did the first people reach the Pacific Islands?
14.	What does the term “Oceania” mean?
15.	Why are so few large animals found on the Pacific Islands?
16.	When was Guam ceded to the U.S.?
17.	Which Islands were formerly called Navigators Islands?
18.	Of what group of islands is Canton a part?
19.	Which island was formerly called Mary Island?
20. What is copra?
21. What is the International Date Line?
22.	Which was the first trusteeship of the U.N.?
23.	Where did Robert Louis Stevenson have his home?
24.	What are the three main islands making up Wake?
25.	In what year did Pan American establish an air base on one of these islands?
IV. DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1.	Why will these islands prove increasingly valuable to the U.S. with the growth of international air traffic?
2.	What is meant by the statement that “these islands play an important role in general American influence in one of the most important and troubled areas of the globe”?
3.	Why are these islands called Pacific “stepping stones”?
4.	Why are the Fiji Islands compared to the Hawaiian Islands as a “hub” in the Pacific?
VOCABULARY
Some words we’ll need to help us under-
stand what we	read:
accordance	agreement, harmony
admixture	act of mingling or mixture
advent	arrival, coming
annexation	incorporation of newly acquired territory
appropriate	set apart for particular use
appurtenances	necessary belongings or attachments
archipelago	group of islands
assault	violent attack
atoll	ring shaped coral island enclosing a lagoon, common in the Pacific
bark
The Terminal — Wake Island.
three masted vessel