Pan American
March-April, 19S0	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
TURKEY
By Lou A. Phillips
a
Between the Christian Balkan States in southeastern Europe and the Mohammedan Arab States in southwestern Asia, 30 hours by Flying Clipper from New York City, live eighteen million Turkish citizens who have found a strangely satisfying recipe for well-being.
Turkey at one time was one of the largest empires ever to< have existed in the world, covering an area the size of the United States on the three continents of Europe, Asia and Africa. This empire has been cut down until it is not quite as large as the two states of Texas and Louisiana combined. The result is a virile nation, at peace for the first time in seven centuries, which through hard work, industrialization and a belief in the dignity of man, is beginning to enjoy the fruits of labor that went into a great and unique transition. The ingredients of the recipe were forced upon the Turkish people but the result is entirely due to their own accomplishments.
The Empire
The old Ottoman Empire stretched from the Danube and the Dardanelles to the Nile and the Garden of Eden. Unlike other states and empires which took their names from their people, the Ottoman Empire was named after the first Sultan Osman (Oth-man) who lived in the thirteenth century. The dynasty ruled for nearly seven centuries, one of the longest records in the history of the world. The last sultan was not dethroned until 1923 when Turkey became the official name of the country for the first time.
The Empire was constantly at war. No generation, decade or single year passed in which an Ottoman sultan did not mobilize his Turkish peasant soldiers for action. From the thirteenth to seventeenth centuries wars of Ottoman aggression were fought for conquest in Europe, Asia and Africa. The territories of earlier empires of Byzantine, Rome, Greece, Persia, Babylonia, Assyria and Egypt passed under Turkish rule.
As a land bordering the middle sea between the Indian and Atlantic Oceans, the Empire not only controlled the riches and raw materials of conquered nations, but like a triborough bridge it served to link three continents.
Although Turkey’s unique central land position was weakened by Columbus’ discovery of America and outflanked by Vasco da Gama’s route to India, its geostrategic position between west and east still made the nation the object of imperial competition and pressure by all of its many neighbors, great and small. From the seventeenth to twentieth centuries wars were fought both against nationalist insurrections from within and against imperialistic European intervention from without. Civil strife was ever present. The Great Powers greedily regarded Ottoman provinces and foreign capitalists gained control of railroads, mines and banks. During the early part of the twentieth century the Empire tottered toward am inevitable doom.
The first World War saw Turkey surrounded by belligerents. Two landlocked powers, Germany and Austria-Hungary
ISTANBUL—Like other cities in the Old World (and some in the New World too) Istanbul has its narrow streets. In the background of this picture, with flag flying, is the Galata Tower.
were allied against a triple entente composed of Russia, France and Great Britain. Fear of Russian designs upon their Straits, and resentment of Great Britain’s hold upon Egypt and Cyprus inclined the Turkish government toward the enemies of these two countries and the nation ranged itself alongside the Central Powers. As a result of the war, Turkish strength was completely shattered and the Ottoman Empire destroyed. A treaty was signed in 1922 reducing the country to a shadow of its former self but freeing the people to concentrate upon internal reforms. A republic was proclaimed in 1923 and a New Grand National Assembly dethroned and expelled the sultan.
Rebuilding Begins
The fall of a nation from a position of great power ordinarily has dire consequences for its people. Turkey has been the exception to this generalization. From the standpoint of the people, power is a meaningless asset unless it can be translated into spiritual tranquility and economic prosperity. Under the sultans, patient, hard-working Turks
were kept in a state of ignorance, stifled by religious fanaticism and sapped by corrupt government. The great social, economic and political changes effected under the first twenty-seven years of the Republic have given the Turkish people a new lease on life. They have enabled the rebuilding of the nation along completely modern lines towards a goal of social equality, economic stability and peace.
The area of Turkey today is about 294,000 square miles. It is bounded on the north by the Black Sea, Bulgaria and Russia; on the east by Iran (Persia) ; on the south by Iraq, Syria and the Mediterranean Sea; and on the west by Greece and the Aegean Sea.
The major portion of Turkey lies in Asia and is known as Anatolia; another smaller region lies across the Bosporus in Europe. For the most part, Anatolia is a high plateau with a narrow coastal belt of low land. Running parallel to the south coast on the Mediterranean Sea are the Taurus and Anti-Taurus Mountains. On the north the plateau rises to low mountains which drop