8
This tour departs from Seattle and Portland on July 16, with return on July 31. Approximate cost from either city is $589.
Write to:
Division of Travel Service National Education Association 1201 Sixteenth Street Washington, D. C.
American Youth Abroad
Colombia.—
An eight week itinerary including attendance at the summer session of the National University of Colombia has been announced by American Youth Abroad.
The announcement calls attention to the fact that Bogota, where the university is situated, is high in the Andes where cool mountain air and warm sun combine to create a delightful summer season. It further promises that in Bogota “you will be exposed to the best spoken Spanish in South America”, a claim which probably would be challenged by citizens of other countries, but which probably may be allowed if other countries also are credited with having examples of the best spoken Spanish. It may also be pointed out that the faculty of the University of Colombia is fully experienced in conducting summer courses for visitors from the United States. A large group traveled from New Orleans to Colombia via PAA for the 1949 summer session.
The program this year will include, in addition to formal class room work, a series of seminar discussions on contemporary problems of South America with leading Colombian citizens.
The group will depart from Miami via PAA toward the end of June and will return at the end of August. The price of $595 includes air transportation Miami to Bogota and return, transfers from the airport at Bogota to living quarters, room with maid service, meals, tuition at the university and the services of a group leader.
Write to:
American Youth Abroad 320 Fourteenth Avenue, SE Minneapolis, Minnesota
University of Houston
Mexico-Guatemala.—
The international Study Centers of the University of Houston were described in the Jan.-Feb. issue. Since that time the University has issued an attractive and informative brochure which may be had by writing to the university at the address given below.
The summer center in Mexico is offered in cooperation with the National University of Mexico. It runs from June 8 to July 13 and the all-expense cost is $325, including transportation via PAA from Houston.
The Mexico-Guatemala program begins July 20 and extends through August 24, and is conducted in cooperation with the University of Guatemala. This program includes a stopover in Mexico City for field trips, with class work scheduled at the University of Guatemala after arrival there. Cost is $495.
Write to:
Mr. Joseph S. Werlin, Dir.
International Study Centers University of Houston 3801 St. Bernard St.
Pan American
Worio Airways Teacher
Indiana University
An air travel study tour to Guatemala, with transportation from Houston via PAA, is offered by the University of Indiana. It offers 13 days in Guatemala and the cost (from Indianapolis) is $400. Write to:
Dr. Merrill T. Eaton,
Indiana University,
Bloomington, Indiana.
Teacher’s Summer Session
Colombia.—
A tour leaving Miami via PAA July 4 and returning August 7 affords an opportunity (optional) to study at the summer session of the National University of Colombia at Bogota. The all-inclusive fee including room, board, transportation and tuition is $498. Courses in Spanish, Social Science and other subjects are available. Write to:
Mrs. Herberta Ann Leonardy 1209 Ferdinand St.
Coral Gables, Florida.
Roosevelt College
South America.—
Dean Thomas A. Hart is organizing a South American Study Tour with travel arrangements by American Express Company. The group departs from Miami June 17, traveling via Panagra and flies to Peru and Bolivia, returning August 31. Write to: Dean Thomas A. Hart,
Roosevelt College,
Chicago, 111.
Notre Dame Summer Session
Mexico.—
Notre Dame offers a summer session in Mexico—tuition $100, transportation to be arranged by the students. Write to:
Prof. Walter M. Langford,
Dept, of Modern Languages,
University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Summer Sessions Around the World
The detailed information on summer sessions at which students from the United States are invited to register this year is too lengthy to reproduce here, and is readily available in printed form from sources which are given below.
A folder entitled “Summer Study Abroad in 1950” has been issued by the Institute of International Education which is located at 2 West 45th Street, New York 19, N. Y., and gives a summary of offerings in Canada, Latin America, the Near East and Europe. The folder also gives information about credits, living arrangements, scholarships (in the relatively rare cases where these are available), passports and visas, vaccination and transportation. Your library probably has the folder, or write to the Institute.
Approximately the same information will be found in Scholastic Teacher, March 1 issue. The same issue of Scholastic Teacher carries an article about San Marcos University in Lima by a teacher who attended the summer session in 1949.
An announcement from San Andres University in La Paz, Bolivia makes it known that requests for registration may be sent to Dr. Harvey L. Johnson, Dept, of Romance Languages, Northwestern University, Evanston, 111.—information which does not appear in the Institute and Scholastic Teacher summaries, probably because it was
March-April, 1950
not known when they went to press.
For summer sessions at Merida, Mexico ; San Jose, Costa Rica and Medellin, Colombia a source of information in the U.S. is Mario Bermudez, International House, New Orleans, La. Mr. Bermudez was on a trip to those cities when this issue went to press. A letter to him will elicit information on opportunities in the places mentioned.
The most detailed descriptions of summer school courses in Latin America which have come to the attention of World Airways Teacher are presented in a mimeographed bulletin entitled “Opportunities for Summer Study in Latin America, 1950” issued by the Division of Education, Department of Cultural Affairs of the Pan American Union, Washington 6, D. C. This publication probably is available in school and public libraries.
The Pan American Union’s announcement (note that it covers Latin America only) gives dates, admission requirements, fees, housing arrangements, descriptions of courses, and addresses of those who will receive requests for registration.
Holy Year Pilgrimages
Six all-expense Holy Year pilgrimages have been set up by the Holy Name Society and Pan American World Airways, according to an announcement by the Very Reverend Harry C. Graham, O.P. National Director of the Holy Name Society. The tours range in price from $995 for 16 days to $1586 for 35 days.
The first 16-day pilgrimage for $995 will leave on June 22 and daily thereafter until September 1 when a seasonal reduction in air rates allows for a lower package price. The pilgrimage includes an overnight in London, visits to the shrines at Lisieux and Lourdes, four days in Rome and two days in Nice.
Three $1231 pilgrimages lasting 25 days leave New York on July 2, 5 and 22. The first group travels, with appropriate stopovers, New York, London, Paris, Lisieux, Versailles, Lourdes, Lisbon, Fatima, Lisbon, Rome, Bologna, Rome, Paris and New York.
The second group travels New York, Shannon, London, Paris, Lourdes, Nice, Bologna, Rome, Paris and New York. Feature of this trip is five days in Ireland.
The third group travels London, Paris, Rome, Bologna, Nice, Carcassone, Lourdes, Lisbon, Fatima, Lisbon, New York.
On July 2 and July 22 groups will leave on the 35-day $1586 pilgrimages as follows:
The first group leaving July 2 and returning August 6 will travel London, Paris, Lourdes, Lisbon, Fatima, Lisbon, Madrid, Barcelona, Nice, Rome, Bologna, Paris and New York.
The second group leaving New York July 22 and returning August 26 travels London, Paris, Rome, Bologna, Nice, Barcelona, Madrid, Lisbon, Fatima, Lourdes, Paris and home to New York.
Expenses include all transportation, hotels, three meals a day, baggage and guided sightseeing tours.
Bookings may be arranged through a travel agent, an office of Pan American World Airways, or write to:
Society and Travel Service, Inc.
135 East 42nd Street New York City.