Pan American
March-April, 1950	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
TURKISH CITIZEN. Since 1920 Ke has lived in the new Turkish state, which has made outstanding advances in democratic government, education, industry, agriculture and the well-being of its people.
exchange with which to pay for the items needed.
During the early years of the Republic Turkey was forced to buy abroad much more than she was able to sell. In the days of the Ottoman Empire it was even necessary to import flour for bread. Through development of Turkish industry, the Republic has been able to dispense with imports of a number of manufactured items and food staples. Agricultural and mineral exports have been increased freeing Turkey to concentrate its purchases in the fields which will most aid industrialization. During the decade from 1930 to 1940 imports of machinery increased 5%; fuel imports increased 10.4%; and imports of land transportation equipment increased 9.8%. In contrast imports of textiles decreased 5.3%; and sugar cane and sugar products decreased 4.9%.
Prior to 1929 Great Britain occupied a primary position in Turkey’s foreign trade. From that time until the second World War foreign exchange difficulties forced Turkey to conduct trade relations on a clearing system mainly with Germany. Since the second World War however the United States occupies the leading position in Turkey’s trade with Great Britain second. In 1947 the United States bought 23.5% of Turkish exports and supplied 33.4% of Turkish imports.
Transportation—Key to Development
The Republic’s inheritance from the old Ottoman Empire consisted mainly of obligations and little of any value which could be used in building a new and modern economy. In the field of transportation alone the government has accomplished wonders during twenty-seven years of power. New highways and railroads were built and those in existence were repaired and lengthened. Seaport facilities have been modernized, airports built and an airline established.
Despite the fact that Turkey lies thousands of miles from New York, Pan Amer-
vise actual construction. Six new major highways are planned and provision will be made for their proper maintenance.
During sixty-three years of railroad construction under the Ottoman Empire 2,320 miles of railroads were built. In twenty-seven years the Republic has constructed 2,332 miles of railroads bringing the total to 2652 miles. Railroads owned by foreign investors were repurchased. Another 1,394 miles of track will be constructed and existing mileage will be extended in several directions.
Imports of locomotives have been financed partly through the United States Export-Import Bank and other purchases have been made in Great Britain and Czechoslovakia,. Rail communication between Turkey and Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Austria, Germany, Switzerland, France and points beyond is available via the Orient Express. The Taurus Express speeds travelers to Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Palestine and Egypt.
ican World Airways Clippers of the Sky taking off at 9 A. M. arrive in Istanbul at 9:40 P.M. on the following day. From London, Clippers leave twice a week at 8:25 A.M. and arrive at the Turkish city at 8 P.M. the same evening. Air travel has thus made it possible for the average American to understand, through first hand observation, what a free people can accomplish in a limited number of years by hard work and a firm belief in their own abilities.
Once in Turkey, DHY-—-The Turkish State Airline (Devlet Hava Yollari) can whisk visitors from Istanbul to Ankara, Izmir, Seyhan, Diyarbakir or Eskisehir within a few hours. This permits short visits to be complete in every way. In addition the Turkish Government, eager to have visitors view their accomplishments, is most cooperative in advising travelers concerning itineraries by both air and surface means, and has established special rates for tourist travel and living accommodations.
Roads are of fundamental importance to a nation’s economic life. There are good motor roads in and between the principal cities and an ambitious program is under way to link both existing and new highways in an extensive network suited to' fast, safe all-season travel. Technical engineering knowledge and modern road construction machinery supplied by the United States assure the rapid and successful completion of the program. The activities of the United States Public Roads Administration in Turkey are financed from an initial appropriation for aid to Turkey passed by our Congress. American advisers not only plan and draft highway bills for the new Republic but also train Turkish citizens in the operation of American equipment and super-
FORT ANKARA—Turkey has happy children, and the smiling youngsters in this picture helped the photographer make a pleasing picture of the ancient citadel. The youth of modern Turkey have a proud heritage, and draw upon their colorful past for some of their day to day activities, such as playing among the ruins of the famous fort which dominates the sky line of the modern city.