4
Pan American
World	Airways Teacher
March-April, 1950
MOSQUE—The Mosque of Suleiman the Magnificent is in Istanbul. Suleiman was Sultan of Turkey from 1520 to 1566, and it was during his reign that Turkey became a first rank sea power.
abruptly to the Black Sea. Other mountain ranges slope down to the deeply indented Aegean coast.
In the interior the plateau is a treeless plain broken occasionally by rocky steppes and low mountain ranges with scanty vegetation. Turkey has a number of streams, none of which are navigable, whose value lies chiefly in the fact that they are a source of irrigation for the dry interior.
Agriculture and the People
Turkey is primarily an agricultural country. More than 80% of its population is engaged in agriculture which produces two-thirds of the national income. The level land of the interior plateau provides excellent pastures for cattle, sheep, goats, horses, mules, camels and buffaloes. The mountains are flanked by fertile coastal plains upon which are raised such crops as tobacco, olives, cotton, sugar beets, figs, nuts, opium, wheat, barley, silk, gums and linseed.
There are very few large landowners and most of these are concentrated along the Mediterranean near Seyhan, the center of cotton production and the textile industry.
The Turkish Republic has devoted much energy to the development of modern, scientific methods of farming. Specific knowledge has been made widely available to the people by the establishment of experimental stations and exhibitions under the supervision of the Institute of Agriculture. Selected seeds have also been distributed. As a result the nation’s cultivatable area has been doubled and the quality of products improved. Tobacco and cotton crops have trebled in modern times. Nearly all agricultural products are exportable.
Further improvement in the field of agriculture depends in large measure upon the outcome of an electrification program being sponsored by the government. A Turkish Bureau of Electrical Study has concentrated its efforts during recent years on the development of hydro-electric power. Because Turkey’s rivers are subject to abrupt changes it has been necessary to build retaining dams for flood control as well as for power de-
velopment. Dams protect drainage areas and prevent erosion and in some cases make water transportation possible. Four power plants are being developed; one in the Black Sea area built by the British and three others to serve Ankara, Istanbul and the Aegean coast.
However, there are approximately 40,000 villages in Turkey and even when the electrification program of the country is carried out and a high tension network completed it will not be economically possible to supply power to all of these settlements. The villages are mainly composed of about forty or fifty houses each and are scattered miles apart.
One-third of these settlements have waterwheel driven flour mills either in the village proper or a few miles away, and the government is studying possible means of generating power by simple means through these mills. The objective is to develop a few standard types of equipment which will solve the light question and also make possible the use of time-saving harvesting equipment.
Other Natural Resources
Coal is Turkey’s most important source of energy. The nation’s coal supply is estimated at 1.4 billion tons of which three million are mined annually. Mining equipment represents one of the most vital imports of the country. During the second World War however purchases abroad were interrupted and until recently production has been maintained by sheer labor rather than by use of efficient and modern methods. The most important bituminous coal deposits are centered around Zonguldak, a port on the Black Sea but lignite coal is scattered all over Turkey.
Until the Turkish Government founded a Mineral Research and Exploration Institute in 1936 practically no iron ore had been mined in the nation. In 1937, however, the Institute discovered a large deposit at Dev-rek in northern Turkey near the Black Sea. About twenty million tons of ore which has an iron content above 65% are mined annu-
ally at this site. Extensive prospecting for other possible deposits is under way.
One of the largest mineral discoveries made by the Institute was the location of chrome deposits in eastern Turkey which are reported to be the most extensive in the world. Turkey is one of the world’s leading chrome producers accounting for about one-fourth of the entire output of that mineral.
Although copper had been mined in Asiatic Turkey ever since ancient times mines were shut down until the latter part of the 1930’s. At that time they were reopened and the high ore content of the deposits gives copper mining a promising future in the national economy.
The Institute also has been carrying on an extensive search for native oil resources. One project has yielded oil but there is hope that other valuable deposits may be found in the region lying between the oil fields of Iran and Iraq. Oil seepages in European Turkey also offer further possibilities. In the meantime the nation must obtain oil through agreements with Iraq, Iran, Russia, Rumania and Great Britain.
Other mineral resources such as manganese, lead, zinc, antimony, silver, mercury, sulphur, molybdenum, magnesite and asbestos are produced in quantities designed to meet domestic needs. The development of mineral resources and production will undoubtedly increase as industrial growth is speeded up.
Turkish Industries
The Turkish people realize that the quickest way for them to raise their standard of living is through industrialization which will mean more goods at prices they will be able to afford.
The main ingredients for this transition lie within their borders. Tin and rubber are the only staples lacking. After twenty years of industrialization under the Republic 10% of the population instead of 2% are employed in modern factories for consumer and heavy industrial goods.
About half of the industries are owned by the government. These are mostly key industries important for military equipment and are located inland far from any coast. The other industries are privately owned. These include manufacture of sugar, textiles, cotton, wool, linen, silk, jute, leather shoes, paper, ceramics, glass, aluminum, cement, agricultural machinery, motors and benzine from coal.
The nation’s four major mineral resources—coal, iron, copper and chrome are slated to play major roles in the country’s industrialization program. One of the most important items in this program is the country’s iron and steel plant built by a British firm and complete with blast furnaces, coke ovens and foundry and tube works. Its output is sufficient for the entire country’s needs at present.
Turkey’s Stake in World Trade
Since the end of the second World War, Turkey’s foreign trade has attained its pre-war level. The nation has large scale needs for industrial machinery and equipment and a variety of agricultural implements and related tools. Modern transportation equipment is also a major import. Therefore, one of the country’s important goals is expansion of exports in order to obtain the foreign