Pa/v Amerîcan
e	World Airways TeacherMarch-APrii, 1950
WEAVING—The Turkish women here are weaving a rug on a hand loom exactly like the looms used by their ancestors in past centuries. Some of the most beautiful and valuable antique Oriental rugs were made in Turkey in the 16th and 17th centuries.
Before the advent of the Republican administration, Turkey’s 4,454 miles of coastline lacked up-to-date port and harbor facilities. Modern efficient equipment was installed in the harbors of Eregli, Trabjon, Inebolu and Asmasra on the Black Sea and two million dollars was allocated to enlarge and modernize the port of Istanbul.
Cities—New and Old
City planning and housing were near the top of the list of items neglected by Ottoman rulers. The Turkish Republic has completed a long list of accomplishments in this sphere of activity. Perhaps the most impressive is the creation of the nation’s new modern capital, Ankara. This unique model city was transformed from a small insignificant Anatolian town into a place of beautiful dwellings and public buildings.
Among major works of new construction were huge blocks of buildings housing various ministries, hospitals, banks, military colleges and academies, schools, a university, studios, theatres, an opera house, a railroad station, housing projects, public parks and gardens, swimming pools and modem factories. The new capital is located in the center of the land and is the residence of 200,000 people.
The country’s former capital, Constantinople is now officially known as Istanbul. Situated on a promontory on the narrow Bosporus, the city carried on the commerce •of the world for centuries as a meeting place ■of East and West. In ancient days the Turks held the narrow strait joining the Sea of Marmora and the Black Sea and blocked the ships of Asia-bound navigators. Consequently, the ships were forced either to make a long trip around Africa or to pay heavy tribute to the Turks for the use of the strait.
Today Istanbul with many mosques towering above low buildings no longer lives up to its old title of “Queen of Cities”, but within its environs exists a contrast of the old and the new which will fascinate all travelers. There are modern buildings and shops, street cars, automobiles, and granite paved bridges close beside old wooden houses and the Grand Bazaar, the native trading place.
Of the many mosques that formerly dotted the city, scores have disappeared but many are still standing. Among those remaining is the mosque of Saint Sophia now called the Mosque of Mahomet which has stood guard for five centuries, a vivid reminder to the teeming population of 900,000 people of the city’s former glories.
Political and Social Equality
Paralleling the great transitions which have taken place in economic life are those in the political and social spheres. Ever since its inception the new Turkish State has been based on a democratic foundation. The clause in the Turkish Constitution which affirms that sovereignty belonged unconditionally to the nation has become the factor which guides Turkey’s entire administrative machinery. Sovereignty is wielded by a Turkish Grand National Assembly which is the sole representative of the people. Justice is administered by free and independent law courts acting in the name of the nation.
All class, family and personal privileges have been abolished and are prohibited by the Constitution. Elections take place once every four years. Every Turkish citizen over twenty-one years of age votes for a deputy to the Assembly (one for each 40,000 inhabitants). These deputies in turn make laws, elect the president and delegate ex-
ecutive authority to him and his chosen Council of Administers. Provincial, county and local councils elected by the people are responsible for matters not of national import.
Before 1923 women who tried to assume personal, social, economic or political equality with men were considered sinful by the Empire’s subjects. Today complete freedom and equality for women is considered a most natural and fundamental right essential to modern society.
In 1926 the Turkish Republic re-established partial equality for the women of Turkey. In 1930 they were permitted to vote in municipal elections and in 1935 full political recognition was granted. In the first election after the final decree seventeen women won seats in the Parliament.
Since the establishment of the Republic, education has occupied a place of crucial importance in the life of the nation. It was placed under the direction of a council officer and one of the basic aims of the Republic has been the abolition of all illiteracy. A systematic campaign has been carried out with persistence and determination ever since. Elementary education is compulsory for all children in villages, towns and cities from seven until twelve years of age. Higher education, once restricted, is now available to all. There are three universities, two in Istanbul and one in Ankara. The University of Istanbul, founded in 1453, includes faculties for law, medicine, science, letters and economics. There are nearly six hundred professors, assistant professors and lecturers teaching in the institution representing fifty foreign nationalities.
Peace and Accomplishment
Turkish leaders are well aware of the gigantic task they have undertaken. They are also aware that the progress made so far was only possible during a period of freedom from hostilities. When the second World War broke out Turkey took the position that it would fight only if attacked. This decision was based on a realization that open warfare would only transform the country into a battleground which would destroy its hard won progress. Turkey therefore adopted a policy of neutrality.
Passively allied with the United States, Great Britain, France and Russia the nation used its geographical position as a double drawbridge between the East and Asia and between the Mediterranean and Black Seas to block Hitler’s path to the Middle East and Africa. Turkish officials frankly stated that the reason for their final formal declaration of war against the Axis, made in April 1945, was only due to the passage of a resolution at Yalta that only states declaring war on the Axis would be invited to help set up international machinery for world security.
Turkey’s strong desire for peace and the belief of Turkish citizens in hard work and education make them a nation United States citizens will want to know better. In your travels throughout Turkey you will not pass through a village, no matter how small, where you will not see a new little school house where parents as well as children are learning to read and write. In these buildings, erected by the villagers themselves and financed by the government, lies the future of Turkey.