Paw America/v
Wo Rio Airways Teacher	March-April, 1950
Sp**’’	Pah American	f
* World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1950, Pan American Airways, Inc. Editors are authorized to reorint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Return of the Forum Delegates
The Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools was held this year in the Waldorf Astoria, New York City, on March 4. Its subject, “The World We Want”, was discussed by a notable series of adult speakers, and its real high lights were panel discussions in which the participants were U. S. students and students from the Middle East and Southeast Asia which sent delegates this year.
All this was reported in full in the Herald Tribune of Monday, March 6.
The report on the Flying Clipper trip home by the guests from abroad appears here for the first time in print—extracted from a letter which Delegate Syed Adam Edward Hogan-Shaidali of Malaya wrote to Forum Director Helen Waller.
We give the rest of this space to Eddie.
G.G.
Dear Mrs. Waller :
Yes, I’ve got home all in one piece.
We had an unexpected stop in Boston, and PAA took the passengers on a 2^ hour tour of it. So we saw Boston! As usual, we held the hour up when some of us chose to disappear to seek film for the galaxy of cameras present, and, of course, “the kids” (as you call us) took their own time! The poor busdriver nearly went nuts.
Anyway, we did leave Boston, and went on to Sydney in Nova Scotia (as Gander was fog-bound). We had our last, and grandest snow-fight, and was it fun, or was it?
Thence across the gloomy, grumbling Atlantic, in one of her grey moods as usual. We whiled away the time by telling tall tales, joking (with much loud laughter), and singing (???) songs, to the annoyance of the other passengers, poor souls, who were powerless because they were in a minority!
Then wonderful London, grand city that it is. I saw Trafalgar Square (old Nelson looked quite satisfied on his column) and Piccadilly Circus (I looked for elephants, tigers, and other signs of a circus, but was disappointed. The only clowns I saw were in our own party!).
We left London reluctantly. Brussels, night stop, hot coffee, Belgians who speak French: then over Munich, all lights spread out, quite beautiful, and—gorgeous sights— the massive Bavarian Alps, snowclad, standing strong and silent under the full moon. I woke all “the kids” up for this sight.
We spent the rest of the night making faces (believe it or not, yours sincerely, Robert Ripley) at each other. Now I know why you call us “kids”, and I agree with you!
We stopped at Istanbul for breakfast. The airport-wallah said, “Welcome to Istanbul capital of Turkey don’t leave any valuables in the plane breakfast will be served soon,” all in one breath.
We had a sorry moment when it came to saying our first “Good-Byes” to Miss Latifie Ameen Saad.* She cried and smiled at the same time, and we smiled and many tried not to cry, and we said “Peace be with you”, cleared for take-off, and for a solid ten minutes there was an absence of gay chatter and laughter.
However, we got over the first, and the hardest, farewell and soon continued to reduce the plane to chaos and the crew to nervous wrecks. Time passes quickly, especially when you’re arguing with a girl (as I found out, they insist on having the last word, bad habit), and all too soon, we got to Karachi.
Cries of welcome for Jehangir Mirza,f and introductions for all of us to his nice family. Miss Nadira Azizf decided to part from us here too, and we met her elder brother, a very fine young fellow, and two good-byes were said, easier this time. Then the engines roared, the wheels turned faster and faster, and there were two less fine people to talk to.
No sleep that night at all for most of us, waiting for New Delhi to come—then two more stepped out into the night, and we flew on, Eastwards, always Eastwards, dreading the thought of other stops to come, each one dislodging a piece of our heart. Anyway, we ate, drank, and were merry, for tomorrow we parted ; Kim$ soon had the steward completely fascinated by his smile and had the poor man willing to do anything for him.
At this stage, Kim whipped out a cinema projector, amidst muffled cries of delight from us, and the poor, hypnotized steward ripped up a pillow case to make a cinema screen, while good old Kim plugged his projector into the plug for the shaver, and an Indian passenger contributed a shoe to stretch the screen with! Then we had movies to cheer us up !
Then we produced a pack of cards and played “Bluff”, right through the night, and saw a wonderful dawn (rushing for cameras) over Calcutta, where we saw green things again, and all the familiar sights— banana trees, thatched huts, cocoanut palms,
* Of Lebanon, f Of Pakistan.
$ Vu Huy Kim of Indo-China.
oh, it was grand to see them again!
Then the long flight to Bangkok, passing over Rangoon on the way (of course Miss Nat Mai and Richard* took over the whole party, proudly pointing out this and that, so happily).
Bangkok ahoy, with an eleven hour stop, weren’t we about the luckiest “kids” on earth? Miss Malaival Mojdaraf introduced her mother, we met Supri’sJ family.
Mrs. Mojdara, kind lady that she is, loaded all seven of us into her Buick Super 1950 model, and took us into Bangkok, a most beautiful city really, for a fine four-hour sightseeing trip, and a visit to Myra’s house, with real tea to drink, not the soppy stuff the U.S. pretends is tea (I’m always brutally frank, even though I’m Eddie), then a midnight take-off for Hong Kong.
I was sitting next to Emma** on this part of the journey, and watched her growing excitement as we got nearer and nearer. That’s one thing nice about her, I must say. She is so thoroughly simple at heart that she doesn’t try to conceal her emotions, she’s not ashamed of them like many other people are; our Melitonff was calm and quiet almost to the end of the line, when he couldn’t bear it any longer and had to turn round to me and say, with a huge smile, “I’m back home.”
Mel’s school has been totally destroyed— the auditorium still stands, tragic and alone, roofless, the terrible scars of war on it, still unhealed, but his school still carried on, under corrugated iron roof and wooden walls—primitive conditions, but as long as Ateneo School produces boys like Meliton Salazar, there is nothing to1 fear or worry about.
Came the final partings, then a quick night flight to Singapore “mysterious port of the Orient”. Dawn, and Singapore, and a night with Mr. Henry Lawrence, Jr., Vice-Consul in the Foreign Service of the U.S. State Department, a very kind man, then aboard a DC-3 for Ipoh, three hours in the air, over lush green vegetation, rolling countryside with towering (4000 feet tall) mountains in the blue hazy distance, then—home!
Sad and happy!
Sad at leaving a wonderful land, with wonderful people in it (like those at the Herald Tribune). Sad at parting from 24 wonderful young people. Happy to be back, to see the old faces, the old places. Happy to have helped a bit to get the World We Want. Happy, just plain Happy.
Eddie
* Yadana Nat Mai and Richard Htun of Burma, t Of Thailand.
t Supri Prakob Santisukb of Thailand.
** Emma L. Garcia of the Philippines.
•ft Meliton Salazar of the Philippines.