Pan Amer ícan
March-April, 1950	World Alrmys Teacher	i i
mentioned Luis Llorens Torres, the poet. In Voces de la Campana Mayor, Llorens gathered all his verses. Two of his most forceful poems are perhaps “Canción de las Antillas” (Song of the Antilles) and “Velas Epicas” (Epic Sails).
Luis Palés Matos is well known as a writer of Negro poetry. His volume Turn Turn de Pasa y Grifería contains poems inspired, not by the Negro population of his Island, but rather by the Negro of every country.
In the field of criticism, Margot Arce’s study of Palés Matos shows an inquisitive spirit. Concha Meléndez is another writer of insight. Enrique Laguerre whose novel, La Llamarada, (The Flame) appeared not long ago, belongs to the new generation of writers. The great Jose Ferrer, New York Shakespearian actor, was born in Puerto Rico. Last year the University of Puerto Rico conferred upon him the degree of Doctor of Belles Lettres Honoris Causa.
Puerto Rico also produced its own music and dance. They have the garabato, a variation of the Spanish jota, the cadenas or chains, a musical chorus, the mariandá, a Negro dance, and the dansa which is divided into two parts. The first part, called the paseo, is poetic and sweet, and the second part which is spirited. La Borinqueño, composed by Félix Astol, is the haunting music of the dansa. As a pianist Jesús Maria San-romá is well known in this country.
Eugenio Maria Hostos (1839-1903) is one iof the most distinguished men born in Puerto Rico. As a writer, teacher and thinker, Hostos compares favorably with any of the great men of Latin America. From early youth he dreamed of the independence of his native island, not as a country by itself, but as a member of a' confederacy of the Antilles, together with Cuba and the Dominican Republic.
When Cuba became independent in 1898 and Puerto Rico did not, Hostos suffered a heavy blow. Meanwhile, he had built, in education, for future times. During the years he lived in the Dominican Republic (1879-1888) he founded the first normal school of the country, establishing pedagogical methods that were ahead of his time.
Since poverty prevented the immediate expansion of elementary schools, which were the main need of his country, Hostos decided to prepare teachers, hoping that the few would teach the many. Eventually his hope was fulfilled, and the influence of his school was very great. Hostos went to Chile (1889-1899), where he contributed many ideas to the advancement of public education. He spent the last three years of his life in the Dominican Republic where he reorganized the whole educational system.
Hostos carried on his pedagogical campaigns with the help of a large amount of writing. He published a political novel Pilgrimage of Bayoán. Another book, k,Social Ethics, was planned as a school text.
Hostos is considered an ethical thinker as well as a rationalist, with a deep faith in the power of reason to ascertain truth. “Give me truth,” he writes, “and I shall give you the world. Without truth, you will destroy the world, while I, with truth alone, shall rebuild the world as many times as you may have shattered it. And I shall give
you not only the world of matter, but also the world that the human mind perpetually builds above the natural world.”
In order to show the degree of progress achieved in Puerto Rico, it is interesting to compare the Island’s position with that of other Latin American countries. Puerto Rico’s economic advance is well indicated by the proportion of its population engaged in industry, transportation, services and government to those employed in farming, forestry and fishing. In 1910, 61 per cent worked in agriculture; 13.6 per cent in manufacture and construction; 8.8 in trade and transport, and 16.6 in services, government, etc. In 1948, according to The Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company, these figures were, 38.6 per cent, 23.7 per cent, 17.6 and 20.1 per cent, respectively. In other words, non-agricultural employment has increased from 39% to 61% between 1910 and 1948.
What do Puerto Ricans earn? In dollars, the income per capita in 1946 was $265. In spite of the low income, Puerto Rico surpassed all countries of South America with the exception of Argentina, Chile, Cuba, Panama and Uruguay in net national income in terms of dollars of comparable purchasing power. Since 1940 Puerto Rico’s program for the expansion of economic activity comprises industrial development, stimulated jointly by the Puerto Rico Industrial Development Company and the Government Development Bank, and agricultural expansion which is the responsibility of the Puerto Agricultural Company.
A variety of products important to American consumers are produced on the Island and sold almost exclusively in the United States. They include sugar, cigars and cigar filler, fresh and canned pineapple, canned grapefruit, high quality rum, fine needlework, etc. For insular consumption and export to nearby islands, bottles, paper board, heavy clay products, sanitary wares and
ceramics are being produced on the Island.
As we know, modern life is inconceivable without power. Puerto Rico lacks coal and petroleum. It is making up for this through the expansion of its already considerable electric power development. The Island has more than doubled its electric power production in the last eight years. A new hydroelectric plan was inaugurated in January 1949. Hydro-electric production is closely related with irrigation for agriculture.
Puerto Rico trades with many countries but the bulk of its commerce is with the United States. It has sold to the U. S. between 90 and 98 of every 100 dollars of its external sales. The Island buys from practically every State of the Union—wood and wood products, wheat flower and feeds, pork, beans, rice, machinery and automobiles and textiles. In dollar terms, Puerto Rico ranks now fifth in the Latin American market for U. S. products. In terms of per capita trade, it surpasses the southern Republics by a wide margin.
Your Clipper is Waiting
Puerto Rico is a crossroads for air travel in the Western Hemisphere. It is only 800 miles from Miami and one half the distance from New York to Los Angeles. It offers you every kind of sports, every type of delicious dishes, from the arroz con polio to the typical Puerto Rican pasteles de plátano, almo jábanos o zuñidlos de mats. If you don’t know what this means, well, a friendly Puerto Rican will gladly acquiesce to your request. I’ve been told these dishes are delicious.
Puerto Ricans are a kind and gentle people, industrious and ambitious, eager to help and be useful. What else can you ask? The weather is clear, transparent and the sky limpid. No passport is needed; your Pan American Clipper is waiting ready to take off and carry you to that island of the Caribbean.
FIESTA—Cities of Latin America take pride in honoring their patron saints on their birthday. This youngster is marching in a parade in honor of St. John the Baptist.