Pan American
March-April, 1950	WORLD AiRWAYS TEACHER	9
PUERTO RICO
(Continued from Page 1)
eral mass, which has been cut by erosion into lateral ridges separated by deep gorges. You will see some lakes, a number of lagoons and quite a few rivers and streams and waterfalls which have been harnessed to generate electric power.
Puerto Rico is 1,600 miles south-east of New York, about 1,000 miles south-east of Miami, and slightly over 500 miles north of Caracas, Venezuela. Physically and socially, Puerto Rico is an island of contrasts. There are lowlands and plains, mountains and valleys; areas where it rains almost every day and others of almost desert-like aridity.
Some of the people still live in thatched huts while others have homes with the latest improvements. Sixteenth-century Spanish fortresses and twentieth-century structures dominate San Juan’s skyline. Giant tractors and ox teams plow adjacent cane fields.
Puerto Rico is cosmopolitan and provincial, sophisticated and naive. Although you can fly in a few hours from the United States to Puerto Rico, the Puerto Ricans live an insular life. Many have never left their Island. Others are familiar with the capitals of Europe and feel equally at home in New York, Paris or Mexico.
The climate is tropical marine, slightly modified by insular influences. The average temperature is 73 degrees during the coolest month and 79 during the warmest. These land and sea breezes are an important factor in the climate of San Juan. The mild temperature, the refreshing effects of the trade winds, and the daily sunshine, with the high percentage of ultra-violet rays of low latitudes, are factors that produce the ideal climate of Puerto Rico.
Your visit to a local fruit and vegetable market is an experience never to be forgotten. Scattered among carrots and string beans you see squashes and gourds in hundreds of shapes and colors, large and small roots and barks and fruits. You discover the mango, smooth-skinned about the size of a peach or larger, the taste of which is described as “like an apple with a touch of turpentine and yet quite pleasing nonetheless.”
The cashew or pajuil is a relative of the mango. The edible flesh is pale yellow-white in color, juicy, somewhat acid, and pleasantly astringent. The papaya, well known in the United States, is a melon-like fruit, sweet and slightly musky in flavor. The soursop or guanábana is a large, dark-green fruit, used in the preparation of soft drinks and sherbets. The caimito or star-apple is a round fruit of about the size of a peach. It is a delicious tropical fruit, sweet and juicy. And next to all these delicacies you will find avocados, calabazas (squash), the true yams, sweet potatoes, yuca, malangas and * what not. Any one of these fruits is enough to quench your thirst and add more years to your life.
San Juan, the capital of Puerto Rico, in spite of its metropolitan air still retains the provincial charm of centuries ago.
You will see vendors proclaiming musically the virtues of their wares—from fruits,
JUNGLE—Visitors who travel to the resort, El Youngque pass through this mountain jungle. El Youngque is situated on a mountain top, 3000 feet above sea level.
vegetables, eggs and flowers to chickens carried in baskets perched precariously on their heads, or in small push carts. The ice-cream vendor plays a tune on a triangle. The scissors-grinder attracts attention with a whistle. The lottery-ticket sellers swarm the streets, each assuring you that his ticket surely will be the winner.
Founded in 1521, the town was named Puerto Rico (rich port) by Ponce de Leon, because of the excellence and beauty of its harbor. In time, the name of the Island, San Juan Bautista, was interchanged with Puerto Rico, and the city became known as San Juan and the Island of Puerto Rico.
A century before the arrival of the Mayflower in Plymouth, the citizens of San Juan had built stone houses, started the construction of fortifications, and were trading in the Caribbean.
During the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries San Juan fought numerous foreign invasions. But neither Drake, Hawkins, Clifford nor Bowdoin succeeded in taking this New World citadel of Old Spain.
San Juan proper is situated on an inlet on the northeastern coast, two and one-half miles long by one-half mile wide, terminating on the western end in a steep bluff 100 feet high, where the Morro Castle Fort guards the entrance of the harbor. It is connected to the mainland by three bridges
LOW PRICE TOURS TO PUERTO RICO
Seven day all-expense tours to Puerto Rico from New York for $190 and from Miami for $165 have been announced by Pan American World Airways.
The offerings are made possible by new “tour basing fares” and are available from leading travel agents. PAA has six daily flights from the mainland to and through San Juan.
leading to Santurce. Flying over the city, you can see the forbidden walls of F.l Morro, the tiny fort of Cañuelo, the gleaming white walls of Casa Blanca set high on a hill, the castlelike Fortaleza with its eternally green gardens, and the many-tinted pink, green, white and yellow flat-roofed buildings. Remove the modern office buildings, and the city will appear to you as Tomás Cordova saw it 100 years ago: “... the city seems as if set in an amphitheatre, and the conglomeration of houses, buildings and city walls give on the whole a pleasant and imposing aspect. Magnificent fortifications tower over the buildings as if defying the observer. The houses are of stone and brick, of good construction, the majority two-story high and on a level with the street, having roof terraces like the ones in Cadiz.”
The crowded thoroughfares are filled with fascinating small shops, large stores, cafes, and street vendors. The old houses still preserve their overhanging decorative balconies and grilled windows rub shoulders with modern office and bank buildings.
San Juan has, of course, its residential section—Santurce. There you will see fine homes surrounded by palm trees, flowers and tropical shrubs. There can be found the clubs, hotels and apartment houses, and the homes of more than half the population of the city.
Old San Juan still preserves its colonial appearance. The architecture is Spanish with some adaptations to suit the tropical climate, heat-proof massive walls, shutters, high ceilings and big doors. Remove , the electric lights and you will think you are in the old days, especially in the upper part of the city.
But the city has kept pace with the times. The waterfront at La Marina is the scene of heavy traffic: ships anchored in the wide bay; buses and trolleys running in all directions ; ferry boats crossing the bay to the picturesque little town of Catafio, from