Pan American
World Airways Teacher	March-Apni, 1950
LA FORTALEZA-------This ancient palace in San Juan now is known as Government
House. In it are the offices and residence of the Governor of Puerto Rico. It is the oldest gubernatorial residence under the United States flag.
which highways lead to the interior.
San Juan has numerous examples of work done in primitive masonry: La Fortaleza (1533), the Governor’s Palace, “half palace, half fortress,” combines the harmoniously salient features of Spanish and Moorish architecture. Casa Blanca (1527), built of solid masonry, is characterized by unadorned simplicity. El Morro, a huge mass of masonry piled at the entrance of San Juan was designed by the engineer who built the Morro Castle at Havana. San Juan’s El Morro is a work of great beauty; before the invention of steel and high-powered explosives, the fortress was considered impregnable.
The Intendencia Building (1848) in San Juan is the best example of the Renaissance style, characterized by triangular or segmental pediments, windows or doors opening into small balconies with graceful iron railings. A fine modern version is the Central High School in Santurce, the main part of which is adorned with large columns, forming balconies along the front. At the University of Puerto Rico in Rio Piedras the new buildings in general follow this design. The Casio de Puerto Rico and the Casa de España, the social center of San Juan, are beautiful. The former was copied after the Theatre of the Opera in Paris; the latter is a replica of a Spanish Cortijo or country estate in Andalucía, Spain.
And, of course, the first thing you will know upon your arrival at San Juan is that the gorgeous and up-to-date Caribe-Hilton Hotel, opened last year, awaits you with every imaginable comfort.
Ponce, known as La Perla del Sur (Pearl of the South), is the second city of Puerto Rico. Industrially and commercially it is one of the foremost cities of the Island. Ponce exports most of the sugar and coffee of Puerto Rico. As a town it has its own attractions. Scarcely a patio, balcony or garden can be found that is not covered with
tropical flowers, blooming shrubs, vines and palm trees. Ponce has long been a cultural center with a tradition of literature, journalism, education and political life. Named after Ponce de Leon whose remains are in San Juan’s Cathedral, the city of Ponce has a charm of its own, quiet, leisurely, courteous.
Mayaqiiez, the third city of the Island is known as “the Sultana of the West.” Situated at the foot of a mountain range, the city overlooks Mona Passage, which separates Puerto Rico from the Dominican Republic. With its large and deep harbor, Mayaqiiez still retains its colonial appearance, and the character and customs of the people are distinctly Spanish. In the cultural life of the Island Mayagiiez has played an important part. Eugenio Maria de Hostos was born here, the writer and educator whose name occupies a distinguished position in the Spanish American world.
As a shipping center, it is very important. The surrounding country produces sugar, coffee, fruits, tobacco and honey. Cigars, clothing, furniture, candy, rum and other distilled products are made here. The famous Puerto Rican embroidery and fancy needlework industry is concentrated in Mayaqiiez.
Education for Young and Old
The educational policy of the Puerto Rican authorities is to provide adequate facilities for improving the educational opportunities of the people. This policy is being realized through the joint action of the heads of the school system, the legislative bodies, and the general public. A coordinating committee has been planning reorientation of the curriculum in the light of the local economic, social and political situation. There are parents’ associations, functioning in every school, civil, philanthropic and cultural societies, and religious bodies of various denominations exert beneficial influences on the educational life.
Immediately following the American occupation of Puerto Rico, the school system underwent a series of modifications. Coeducation was provided for all children between the ages of six and eighteen.
Today Puerto Rico has two distinct types of elementary schools—urban and rural. The urban schools are organized on a basis of eight years’ elementary and four years’ high-school instruction. The organization in rural zones provides for first and second units.
The rural first unit organization is planned for the first four years or grades and leads to the second unit, which offers four years of work. The second unit schools are pre-vocational, offering courses in pre-vocational agriculture, gardening, industrial arts, handicrafts, trades, and social work.
The vocational courses for boys include agriculture, tin work, carpentry, shoe repairing, electricity, auto mechanics and so forth. For girls, vocational courses include needlework, basketry, weaving, embroidery, lace making, cooking and domestic crafts. Each second unit school has at least five acres of land for practical work in agriculture, and students working on an agricultural project are given one-third of the net proceeds of the crop.
There are evening classes for adult farmers who have started and plan to start a farm project. An important feature of the second unit is the social worker who visits the rural homes and gives parents and pupils advice on health, social and educational matters. The second unit is also a community center. There is a reading room for all, and on Sundays lectures are given for the public with the help of representatives of the various government departments.
School children engage in many activities for physical education. Calisthenics, songs, folklore, handball, volleyball and basketball are emphasized in the elementary grades. In the high schools, baseball, basketball and volleyball are popular.
Higher education is centered in the University of Puerto Rico at Rio Piedras. The Polytechnic Institute at San Germán offers liberal arts and pre-professional training. The College of the Sacred Heart maintains a School of Liberal Arts.
The budget for the Department of Education during the year 1946-47 was over $15 million dollars. The metropolitan government contributed over $3 million dollars; 86 private schools spent more than $1,500,000.
In 1946, 28.3 per cent of the population 10 years old and over was illiterate. A total of 365,467 persons, or 54.03 per cent of the total population between the ages of 6 and 18, were enrolled in public and private day schools. The total number of teachers in the public schools was 9,217. Of the total number of teachers, 50.31 per cent were normal school or college graduates. Very few countries in Latin America can claim this high percentage of trained teachers.
Puerto Rico’s progress in education during the last fifty years is admirable. Literacy has increased from 23 per cent in 1910 to 76.4 per cent in 1948. Children’s attendance at school has increased from one out of ten to six out of ten. Only Argentina, Chile and Costa Rica surpass Puerto Rico in literacy.
Puerto Rico has produced, besides Hostos, many literary figures. Among these can be