Pan Amerfca tv
World A/rwavs Teacher
United Nations Photo
DACCA — This twelve-year-old, assisting his elders on a construction project, is carrying mortar up a bamboo ladder.
agriculture was unsound and industrialization must be undertaken as rapidly as possible. Now every effort is being made to develop those industries for which raw materials are easily available in the country—industries whose development will save considerable foreign exchange otherwise needed for imports. That is the reason for the great advances made in textiles, cotton, jute, wool, sugar, paper, leather and cement industries.
Pakistan’s financial position is easing but the road is not an easy one. Two great problems remain to be solved. Whether
Govt, of Pakistan Photo
KARACHI — This is the Administration Building at the Karachi Civil Airport.
India or Pakistan will control the state of Kashmir is one question which is a real test for statesmanship in South Asia. Also claimed by both India and Pakistan is the irrigation system of the Indus Basin. This problem is also a complicated and vital one.
In the United States, 11 years passed between the Declaration of Independence, July 4, 1776, and the adoption of the Constitution, September 17, 1787. Pakistan will beat this by four years. There are many similarities between the two documents. For example, in the United States it was essential that each state, no matter what its size or population, have a form of equal representation. The same situation prevailed in Pakistan. The same solution was found in Pakistan as in this country—a bi-cameral legislature, in which the upper house included an equal number of members from each province or state and a lower house based on the population of each unit.
Nowhere in the world is the position of women advancing more rapidly than it is in Pakistan. Before the nation gained its independence the responsibility of women centered in the home alone. With the creation of the new nation it was felt clearly that it was wasteful to have one-half of the population unable to share in all phases of the life of the country.
There has been an ever increasing number of young women coming forward to contribute their might to the refashioning of the
social structure of the country. Their activity was most extensive at the time of partition when millions of refugees from India poured into Pakistan. These masses had to be fed, clothed and looked after. Today Muslim girls are being trained as nurses, doctors and teachers. They are entering professions as well as politics. A number of women are now members of Parliaments in the Provinces and the main government. Public health problems, always very real in a new, undeveloped country, are perhaps their greatest forte.
In the international sphere Pakistan’s efforts have been consistently to strengthen the forces of peace and to lessen international tension in the ideological field. Pakistan has definite beliefs and is willing to resist any threat to it from whatever direction. Mohammed Ali Jinnah, father of his country, has carried out foreign policy by concentrating on four concepts: “(1) Among individuals as among nations respect for the rights of others spells peace. (2) Cooperation with other Muslim nations looking toward united effort for improving economic, social and political standards. (3) Friendship and cooperation with the United States and the other Western democracies. (4) Full acceptance of the United Nations as the best means of attaining world peace and the development of all peoples.”
A nation with these principles is a valuable asset to the United States in the East. A nation with these principles is a valuable , friend to this country anywhere and at any time in history. Our mutual belief in democracy and the rights and dignity of the individual is the foundation of our friendship for Pakistan. The many Pakistani students studying in the United States and the Americans helping and traveling in Pakistan are the surface. Mutual respect and increasing friendship are the result. Pakistan’s national slogan, Pakistan Zindamad (Long Live Pakistan), is a worthy one.
Govt, of Pakistan Photo
CHITTAGONG—This Muslim mosque is located in East Pakistan’s seaport.