Pan American
World Airways Teacher
Govt, of Pakistan Photo
NURSE-------Most significant indication of the new status of women in Pakistan is their
entry into the nursing profession. In past times it would have been unthinkable for a woman to care for a strange man lying in bed.
was a battleground for invading Aryans, Persians, Greeks and other peoples from Asia and the Middle East. According to recent discoveries, the civilization of the people of this part of the world goes back forty-five hundred years. Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro are the names of the excavated cities which throw a great deal of light on the early inhabitants of Pakistan. Archeologists tell us that those people were highly civilized. Judging from the statuary they left behind them, the men wore kilts and the women wore loose-flowing garments with wide girdles. Like their modern sisters, they spent much of their time beautifying themselves. Before mirrors of polished bronze they shaded their eyelids, outlined their eyes and eyebrows, and painted their cheeks with rouge. The men made beautiful objects of gold, silver, bronze, and copper which they decorated with agate, turquoise, and other semi-precious stones. The sculptors worked in marble, alabaster, and bronze, while their potters made articles ranging from kitchen utensils to very beautiful eggshell pottery. The children played with toys which would delight any child today. There were toy carts, toy birds that could whistle, and toy bulls that wagged their heads when their tails were pulled.
The houses of those ancient people were of brick, with many windows, doors, and staircases. Each house had its own well, which was so expertly constructed that after removing debris the excavators were still able to use them. The two excavated cities have already become a Mecca for visitors.
The personal appearance of the Pakistanis of today varies just as much as it does with Americans. Some are dark, others are blond with blue eyes. Some have aquiline features with Roman noses, while many men and women have profiles that are decidedly Grecian.
Modern Pakistan is a very different country from the one in the days of Rudyard
Kipling. There was a time, of course, when the women of Pakistan were kept in strict seclusion, but although some women of the old school still wear the veil in public, as a result of partition and the birth of a new nation, this custom known as purdah appears to be gradually dying out.
Today girls are encouraged to join the Girl Scouts, attend high school or even college, and most startling of all, to go into nursing. At partition there was practically not a single Muslim nurse in all of Pakistan, for to have a Muslim woman attend a strange man in bed was unthinkable. Then came the tragic days of 1947-48, and Pakistan realized that adhering to old prejudices about nurses was criminal. Within a month healthy, good-looking Muslim girls began to crowd improvised hospitals. Today, women’s medical education flourishes and employment is found everywhere for women with abilities.
Politically, Pakistan is going through the pains of a young democracy. The problems of this country are not easy to solve. Though the approval of a new constitution has been postponed, it is worth pointing out some of the advances in every field provided by it. There is no doubt that it will eventually become the law of the land. With the exception of some clauses that reaffirm and secure the Islamic character of Pakistan, the 292 articles of that new constitution (not yet approved) are a set of secular laws for the administration of a democratic parliamentary form of government.
Here are some of the articles which appeared in The NEW YORK TIMES of October 17, 1954. Identification with the Islam begins with the preamble “in the name of Allah” and continues in several articles:
“No legislation should be enacted repugnant to the Koran and Sunna. The Koran is the book of professed revelations to Mohammed the Prophet, and the Sunna is the theory and practice of Islam.”
Steps are to be taken “in various spheres of governmental activities” to enable Muslims to order their lives in accordance with the Koran and the Sunna.
Facilities are to be provided for them “to understand what life in accordance with Koran and Sunna means.”
“Teaching of Koran and Sunna to Muslims should be made compulsory.”
How about the other aspects of governmental organization? Here is in brief the answer. The legislative branch of the Government consists of the House of Representatives with 300 members and the Senate of fifty members, all with five-year terms. The draft constitution provides fourteen additional seats in the House for women and two in the Senate.
Each house has equal power. If there is a difference of opinion on an issue a joint session will be held and a motion will be carried on a minimum vote of 30 per cent of the members of each body. The Senators will be elected by provincial legislatures, the Representatives by the people...
In each of the eight provinces the highest official will be the Governor, who will serve for a five-year term or “during the pleasure” of the President.
In the Judicial branch there will be a Supreme Court consisting of a Chief Justice, appointed by the President, and not fewer than two and not more than six other judges who may serve until they are sixty-five. Each of the provinces will have a high court headed by a Chief Justice “and such other judges as the head of the state may deem it necessary to appoint.”
Under the constitution, the languages of the republic eventually will be Urdu (spoken in most of West Pakistan) and Bengali (the tongue of East Pakistan). Members of both houses may speak in those languages as well as in English. However, for twenty years English shall be the official language of the republic. (According to the latest reports, this language provision has had something to do with the political disturbances in Pakistan.)
Something Pakistani
Pakistanis are fine cooks. They make excellent curries and kababs. They also make wheaten chapatties, which are like tortillas.
The Pakistanis also prepare a superb pilau. A pilau is a favorite dish with Muslims, especially Persians. According to the dictionary, a pilau is a mixture of boiled rice, raisins, spices, and some kind of meat or fowl. However, there is nothing mushy about a pilau. Each grain of rice is separate, and as it is always colored with some kind of spice, a pilau is pretty to look at as well as delicious to taste.
How about the saffron, you may ask. Most of it comes from Kashmir. Few people who use saffron know what this precious spice is or how it is made.
The saffron plant looks very much like a crocus. It is grown in large quantities on some of the plateaus of Kashmir. When in blossom, the large areas of mauve and purple color add a strikingly beautiful effect to an already beautiful landscape. The flowers are dried in the sun, and the pollen is extracted by hand. It is this pollen and the pollen-