2
Published as a service to teachers
by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 19 54, Pan American World Airways, Inc. Publication Schedule: Five issues annually appearing at two month intervals during the school term.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
BOOK SHELF...
THE STORY OF FLIGHT, by Clayton Knight. Illustrated by the author. 150 pp. Grossett & Dunlap, New York 10, N. Y.
This latest contribution to the literature of aviation by Writer-Artist Clayton Knight compresses the important facts of flying-history into 150 pages, and makes it especially clear by including illustrations on almost every page.
He begins his narrative in the present, with “Non-Stop to London.” This is a vivid account of Flight One Hundred, non-stop Clipper to London departing from Idlewild, and of the operations behind the scenes which make such a departure appear deceptively simple.
Knight then does a long flash-back—to the earliest imaginings by man that human flight is possible, an idea that persisted through man’s study of the birds. The legend of Icaras and Daedalus is recounted, the studies of Leonardo da Vinci and others are summarized, and there is a complete chapter on experiments in gliding.
The chapter on gliding ends with the Wright Brothers experiments with gliders, and this leads naturally, of course to Chapter Three, “Power is Added”, describing the work of Samuel Langley, and the successful first flight of the Wright Brothers.
The story continues, chronologically, with the other pioneers: Glenn H. Curtiss in the United States ; J. A. D. McCurdy and F. W. Baldwin in Canada; Henri Farman, Captain Ferber, Charles Voison, Louis Blériot, Leon Delagrange, Hubert Latham and the Brazilian Santos Dumont, in France; A. V. Roe and C. F. Cody in England.
The triumphant demonstrations by the Wright Brothers abroad, Louis Bleriot’s flight across the English Channel from Calis to Dover, the first air mail flight, by Earle Ovington, from Nassau Boulevard to Mineola, Long Island, all these and other early accomplishments are recalled.
The story continues with airplanes in World War I, with the peace time development which was spurred on by Lindbergh’s flight to Paris, the development of over ocean flying with the flights of the China Clipper and others, World War II, the era of the Jet, and finally a glimpse from the vantage of the present forward to coming
Pan Amerrcan
World	Alrways Teacher
years in “The Age of the Universal Airlift” and “The Future of Wings.”
Admiral John H. Towers (Ret.) points out in a foreword that thousands of books on aviation have appeared and many authors have undertaken to write aviation history; that Clayton Knight here has brought together historical segments of special interest,
and that “he has done well.” Teacher readers inevitably will echo the Admiral’s “Well Done.”
Besides the advantage of the many fine illustrations, there is an excellent layman’s glossary, and an index which will make the book especially valuable for the reference shelf.
AIR AGE READERS WRITE
In November we published the winning-letters in a “Global Contest”—global, in that the prizes were Replogle globes.
The letters all were so good that any three could have won. Too bad everybody couldn’t have won. But we can share some of the other letters with the readers, and that’s what we’ll do:
Toledo 10, Ohio
Dear Sir:
Congratulations, Mr. Gardner, on the tenth anniversary of PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER—always interesting- and inspiring.
Since I teach French and Spanish (at Mary Manse College, Toledo, Ohio) I am particularly interested, of course, in the “flights” made to French and Spanish speaking countries, for these articles furnish me with material to quote in my French and Spanish classes. But whether I directly use the articles or not, I always put each copy received on our foreign language bulletin board (even those of flights to countries where Spanish or French is not the official language!), and I am sure you would be pleased to hear the interested and interesting remarks of my students with each new issue of the publication—especially since my students know that I have done a bit of traveling in Europe, and that I have relatives living in several countries in South America— for it does make a difference with the students if they feel that their teacher has first-hand information about the countries in question. And since I love to travel, I think that most of my students catch a spark of my enthusiasm, and dream of traveling themselves some day in the not too distant future (the sooner, the better!). And I hope that many of their dreams may come true—the Pan American Airways way!
Sincerely,
Sister Saint-Pierre, Instructor at Mary Manse College Toledo, Ohio
Norfolk, England
Dear Sir.
I have just received my first copy of World Airways Teacher. I am impressed with it and I think it has great potentialities. The issue is Vol. X No. 5 U.K. number.
Comments:—
1)	One single or double page should be devoted to an up to date physical and economic map of the country, preferably in colour. Along the lines of the A.G.S. pe-
riodical “Focus” with which you are no doubt acquainted. Page 3 as it stands is wasteful.
2)	The pictures in this issue dealing with the U.K. are ALL of London. I would suggest that there is a lack of balance here. Also the pictures which occur on pages 5-11 can be a valuable aid to the teacher. They should be concentrated on a separate page so that they may be easily cut out and used for display purposes without spoiling the contents of “The Teacher.” Greater variety and concentration of pictures is required.
3)	I like the following articles:—
a)	Study Unit
b)	Visual Aids
c)	Quick Reference Facts.
4)	Greater development of the project and research side. In order that the pupils may seek and find the information for themselves.
5)	Your magazine has great possibilities but you would gain much by a closer liaison with the American Geographical Society especially Dr. G. H. T. Kimble.
I should be glad to receive any maps, pictures and booklets or charts which you may have available for distribution to schools. In particular “New Horizons” and “Aviation’s One World”. I trust my comments will be of help to you.
Yours faithfully S. J. Hutcheirce B.A. (Cantab), B.Sc. (Lond), F.R.G.S., F.A.G.S., M.I.B.G.
Jacksonville, Florida
Dear Sir:
I am indeed indebted to Pan American World Airways for their publication Pan American World Airways Teacher. I hope that some day something similar to it will be in the hands of each pupil in my Grade 5. It is a means by which the pupils sense the nearness in hours to the peoples of other lands. The May issue was especially interesting to my class, as it is about England. It happens that for years my pupils have exchanged letters, pictures, and souvenirs with children of Maghull No. Liverpool, and your Airways brings the whole United Kingdom very close.
Very truly yours, Laura S. Warriner