Pan Amerrcan
World Airways Teacher
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO PAKISTAN
In planning our trip to Pakistan, we should remind ourselves first of all that we are going a third of the way around the world and can easily include visits in Europe and the Middle East if we like. And we may decide to return by continuing on around the world by way either of Japan or the Philippine Islands.
A passport will be needed for the trip to Pakistan, and a visa for Pakistan. The passport is issued by our own government and certifies to our American citizenship. The visa is stamped on the passport by a representative in the United States of the Pakistan government and serves as our authority to enter Pakistan when we arrive at the airport there. If we plan to visit other countries en route, or during the journey back to the United States, we’ll need visas to enter those countries also.
Certain medical requirements have to be met. It will be necessary to have a certificate showing that we have been vaccinated against smallpox, also' inoculations for cholera and yellow fever. For other countries, some or all of these, and perhaps other inoculations, will be required.
A month or more in advance is not too long to start meeting the international requirements. Also, it is a good idea to book Clipper passage as early as possible. The first inquiry may be made by telephone or mail or in person at any PAA office or any authorized travel agent. As soon as we make a definite request for space, reservation will be made for the date on which we wish to depart, and the ticket will be issued as soon as we are ready to pay for it, or to arrange for payment in installments.
In deciding what clothes to take, we may compare Pakistan with our southern states, or with southern California. In fact, Western Pakistan often is compared with California for its climate, irrigation methods, types of fruits raised and other factors. For clothing to wear in Pakistan, one may rely upon rayons, cottons and other light weight summer fabrics for summer; tropical worsted and similar fabrics for winter. A topcoat is necessary for cool evenings during the winter—but in the day time theffempera-ture may go to 70 degrees.
The enjoyment of our trip will be greatly increased if we learn as much as possible about Pakistan before we leave home—about its people and their customs, its government, politics, business, industry, agriculture.
When all these preparations have been completed, and the magic day has arrived we are in New York City, checking in at the Air Lines Terminal Building on First Avenue to present our ticket and passport, check baggage and get a seat assignment. From there we go by limousine to the International Airport (Idlewild). Or, we may go direct to the airport to check in. Either way, we report early so that there will be plenty of time to go through the necessary procedures, which are somewhat more complicated than for travel within the United States.
At Idlewild, when all this has been done, there are a few minutes left to look around and see people coming and going from all parts of the earth, and the time is well occupied until we hear our flight announced.
This announcement comes over the public address system. We go to the gate mentioned in the announcement, show our seat assignment card which serves also as our gate pass, cross the ramp, and mount the steps into the Clipper.
As soon as all passengers are aboard the door is closed, the steps are rolled away, and the Clipper Captain starts the engines.
Our Writers for this Unit
Enrique Portes, who wrote the general article on Pakistan is a member of the Secretariat staff at the United Nations, thus being in a situation in which he can quickly consult colleagues from any country which may be the subject of a World Airways Teacher teaching unit.
Lou A. Phillips writes from a background of specialization in foreign trade at New York University, including a period as special assistant to Professor Paul Horn at N.Y.U.
Eugenie G. Nadelman is a curriculum specialist in the New York City Schools, and the principal of a school in Queens Borough.
Esther L. Berg, formerly of the New York City school system is an audiovisual consultant.
The unit was planned and edited by the Educational Director of Pan American World Airways and his account of the flight to Pakistan on this page is based on a trip to that country earlier this year.
Some little time goes by, but we know that the Captain and his crew are making their routine checks of dials on the instrument board, also communicating with the control tower to get clearance to move from the ramp to the end of the runway—all for our comfort and safety.
We taxi to the takeoff point at the end of the runway, and here there is another pause for further checks, also, perhaps a brief wait for airplanes which will take off before we do. Then it is our turn, our airplane rolls into position at the beginning of the take-off run, starts down the runway, gathers speed, and lifts gently into the air.
We’re on our way, with the first stop Gander, in Newfoundland, to refuel before starting off across the Atlantic. During that time we’ll have dinner—a full-course affair as complete, delicious and attractively served as we might get in any fine restaurant. It’s just comfortably over when we land at Gander.
An hour on the ground there for refueling, for additional checks on wind and weather, for rechecking calculations for the flight plan, and to get any special information that may be needed, and we are ready to continue, with London the next stop.
The process is repeated for the flight from London to Rome, Rome to Beirut and Beirut to Karachi, and the feeling grows that we are definitely a part of this operation. We can anticipate now what will come next.
We’re in for a surprise, though, as we fly the long last leg of the flight from Beirut to Karachi. This is a long flight, much of it over desert, and most of the rest over water. We have heard for years about flying the Atlantic and the Pacific, but here is a flight that ranks with them in length. Originally the navigation for this flight called for sights on the stars and long range radio directional navigation just like flying over oceans, because the desert looks so much alike every where. Now, however, radio markers are studded along the desert to mark the course.
By the time we reach the airport at Karachi we’ve had a lesson in geography from the air.
At the airport we go through a customs examination and answer the questions of medical and immigration authorities, but this process is simple, everybody is hospitable and in a few minutes we are rolling by taxi to the city of Karachi itself to begin our visit to the new nation, Pakistan.