Pan American
___________World Alrways Tocher______________
AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Pakistan is essentially an agricultural country with about 80% of the population dependent upon the land for their livelihood.
In general, the nation is self-sufficient in food, and usually has a little available for export. Of the total area under cultivation more than half is devoted to food grains.
Rice, the principal food crop accounts for more than one-half of the crop acreage while wheat is cultivated on roughly one-quarter of the arable land. Ninety percent of the rice is grown in East Pakistan, where the people are predominantly rice eaters, while about ninety-nine percent of the wheat is cultivated in West Pakistan and is the staple food there. Other food grains grown are gram, millet, corn and barley.
Jute is the most important Pakistan export and usually represents about three-quarters of the value of total exports. Internationally speaking, jute is one of the most important commercial fibers in the world, ranking second only to cotton among natural fibers in terms of annual bulk consumption. Jute is a soft fiber, extracted from the stem of a tall reed-like plant. It is golden, and grows alongside the waterways and on the gentle slopes of East Pakistan. It is tended by small landholders.
East Pakistan alone accounts for about 75% of the world’s production of jute and almost 100% of the finest grades. The government regulates production of the jute crop, in view of its great cash value in international trade. However agricultural development now receives top priority over all development projects. Great stress is being laid on a “grow more food” campaign and even the acreage allotted for as important a cash crop as jute was reduced in order that more food could be grown.
Cotton has been grown in the Indus Valley region for centuries. There are two broad classifications of Pakistan cotton: “desi” an indigenous short staple cotton and “American”, a longer staple cotton resembling that grown in the Mississippi Valley. American cotton accounts for about 80% of current annual production of about 1 % million bales of 400 pounds each. Pakistan sheep are a hardy breed and their wools, of which there are eight main varieties, constitute an important part of the nation’s export trade. The 28 million pounds of wool produced annually are used in the manufacture of rugs and carpets, blankets and tweeds. The United States is an important market for Pakistani wool where it is used extensively in carpet manufacturing.
Pakistan is one of the large producers and exporters of fine quality hides and skins, with annual production in the neighborhood of 13 million pieces. Goatskin and goathair are especially prominent in Pakistan’s trade with the United States. In addition to goats, however, herds of cattle and sheep are familiar sights. There are big horned water buffaloes at many water holes and oxen pulling ploughs, carts or waterwheels.
Along the slopes of hills of East Pakistan are tea gardens. The acreage is regulated
GOLDEN FIBER — A staff member of the Pakistan Embassy shows a sample of jute to visitors to a Foreign Trade Week exhibit in Washington, D. C.
under the terms of the International Tea Agreement and the export quota is fixed at 40 million pounds per year. The remaining 15 million pounds of the annual tea harvest are consumed domestically. The United Kingdom is the largest purchaser of Pakistan teas, although the United States imports sizeable quantities.
Pakistan’s North West Frontier Province sometimes called the California of the East because of the fact that every type of fruit which flourishes in California can be found there, in addition to a wide variety of tropical fruits. There are plums, apricots, pears, figs, oranges, lemons, limes, grapefruit, grapes, melons, apples, strawberries, mangoes, loquats, mozambiques, walnuts, almonds and wild mulberry trees as well as dates, raisins and bananas. About half of the annual 5.7 billion pound production is consumed locally; 15% to 30% is used in the canning and preservation industries ; and the balance is exported to neighboring territories either in a fresh or dried condition.
Pakistan is rich in minerals though at present these resources remain unexplored for the most part. Petroleum and low-grade coal are being extracted as well as such minerals as chrome, rock salt, potassium, soda salts and gypsum.
Investment in industry during 1953 exceeded the investment of the previous five years combined. Noteworthy is the fact that the small investor began to take an interest in industry. For example, a recent offering of shares in the Karnafulli Paper Mills was oversubscribed with a large portion of the offerings coming from small investors. Industrial production in 1953 was 60 percent higher than in 1952. Cotton textile production increased 37% during 1953 with yarn production increasing 163%. The country will be self-sufficient in medium and coarse
varieties of cloth in the near future. Pakistan, before being separated from India had no jute industry of its own. It supplied raw material only. Today it has reached self-sufficiency in jute products and a target of 6,000 looms set to be reached in 1957 is now expected to be met in 1955.
The Karnafulli Paper Mills came into production in October 1953 and will soon reach full production of 30,000 tons yearly. The first large mill makes use of bamboo as its raw material and will supply all of the country’s needs for ordinary varieties of paper other than newsprint. Consideration is being given to the manufacture of newsprint from a local soft wood, which would save a lot of foreign exchange. High grade paper board and straw board factories are also soon to start work.
A plant for the production of chemicals for fertilizers is under construction at Daud-khel and is expected to be in production by 1956. The United States Government has agreed to contribute the equivalent of 40 million rupees towards its total cost estimated to be 63^2 million. This means a lot to agricultural development. There are cement factories with two new ones being set up. The Government of Canada is contributing the plant for one factory with the Government of New Zealand contributing towards the cost of another.
Refined sugar production has increased 80% since 1948. A 10,000 ton a year plant is being established in the Thai area and a second one is on order for the same area. Crude sugar made by the open pan process supplies much the largest part of the country’s sugar needs.
There were no woolen mills in 1947 in Pakistan. Today there are eight mills in production which are meeting most of the needs for ordinary purposes although fine worsteds must still be imported. There are also other industries including matches, rubber tires and tubes, hydrogenated vegetable oil and cigarettes (made with Pakistan tobaccos). In all these industries, as in the production of leather the country is fast approaching self-sufficiency.
In view of the fact that Pakistan’s main raw materials will probably always be agricultural, industries based on these will as a rule prove more profitable. The country has no large quantities of iron ore, or even coking coal to smelt what there is. Existing sources are being studied with the expectation that a blast furnace for a production of about 50,000 tons of pig iron a year may be possible. In addition there is considerable development in re-rolling, particularly to supply reinforcement for concrete work and alloy steels of sorts are being made in electrolytic furnaces.
In a predominantly agricultural country such as Pakistan, where most of the people live in villages, home handicrafts play an important role. Although the villagers’ tools are simple their skill and techniques are proficient. Among the utility articles made are leather footwear, saddles, belts, furs, blan-