Pam Am erîcam
World Airways Teacher
......... i'liiiO flfli
	1	FI		gr i	;			
December 1954 Published by Pan American World Airways	m	Li	11	m		n	VOL. XI No. 2
Colleges Encourage Educational Travel by Awarding Academic Credit
Travel is a ceaseless fount of surface education. But its wisdom will be simply superficial if thou add not thoughts to things.—Martin Tupper, 1810-1889
By George Gardner
Educational Director Pan American World Airways
If Martin Tupper could discuss travel and education today with our travel-minded educators and our education-minded travel experts, I think he would be satisfied that they are adding thoughts to things.
Here are two indications:
(1)	Better than one in ten of American colleges and universities regularly grants academic credit for educational travel. Most others have an interest ranging from programs about ready for adoption to preliminary consideration of the proposition.
(2)	It is evident even now that the 1955 ^school vacation will see the greatest number ever of teachers and students traveling in groups, pairs and individuals to all parts of the world, to combine touring for fun with learning for satisfaction and material gain. Elsewhere on this page there is an announcement of a publication, “Adventures in Education”, which will be of interest to those who plan to join the travelling educators this year.
Credit for education travel is an incentive to students and teachers to undertake such travel, and the extent of the practice of granting credit is a gauge of the interest that educational leaders take in it.
To get some up-to-date data on this subject PAA’s Educational Service has made a questionnaire survey of colleges and universities in the United States to determine the current policies and practices with regard to educational travel.
The questionnaire went to 1,944 institutions, including junior colleges, men’s colleges, women’s colleges, co-educational colleges and universities and schools for teach-
ADVENTURES IN EDUCATION
The annual directory of educational tours and summer schools abroad, “Adventures in Education,” is in preparation and will go to press early in 1955.
To reserve your free copy, send a post card today to Educational Director, Pan Americ&ii World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, giving name and address and asking for “Adventures in Education.”
er education. Replies were received from 1,209, a percentage of returns of 62 per cent. This high rate of response was interpreted as evidencing substantial interest, especially since those whose answers were negative usually added that the subject was under study, that plans were being considered, that the institution was not ready to give formal credit but encouraged travel in an informal manner, or in some other way indicated that the importance of educational travel was recognized.
It was this survey which revealed that better than one in ten colleges now has a travel program including academic credit for travel, and the detailed result was as follows:
Number of Institutions Granting Academic Credit or Professional Recognition for Educational Travel
Number of Institutions answering the survey ..................................1,209
^Institutions which grant Academic Credit for Educational Travel. 137 11.3% Institutions which offer Professional Recognition in addition to granting Academic Credit for Educational Travel.......................90	7.4%
Institutions which do not grant Academic Credit for Educational Travel but which offer Professional Recognition of some kind. .257 21.2% Total number which offer Professional Recognition for Educational Travel......................347	28.6%
*In the period 1946 to 1951 there were 102 American colleges and universities which conducted travel courses for which academic credit was offered. A full report on their programs, and a considerable amount of other data on educational travel practices, was presented by Nancy Jean Wilcox in a study submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy at Cornell University. The study has been published by Instructor Magazine.
The total of 137 “yes” answers to the question “Do you grant academic credit for travel?” indicates a healthy growth since Dr. Nancy Wilcox reported on travel courses in 102 colleges and universities offered during the period 1946 to 1951. (See footnote under compilation above.)
The geographical distribution of the 137 is as follows :
Classification by Geographical Location
According to the survey, institutions in 3-out-of~4 states grant Academic Credit for Educational Travel and 12 states have at least 5 or more such institutions reporting in this survey. California led with 16, followed by Texas and Indiana.
Alabama	2	Nebraska	6
Arizona	1	Nevada	0
Arkansas	1	New Hampshire	2
California	16	New Jersey	3
Colorado	0	New Mexico	1
Connecticut	5	New York	7
Delaware	0	North Carolina	2
Florida	0	North Dakota	1
Georgia	1	Ohio	6
Idaho	3	Oklahoma	3
Illinois	6	Oregon	1
Indiana	8	Pennsylvania	6
Iowa	3	Rhode Island	0
Kansas	6	South Carolina	0
Kentucky	1	South Dakota	1
Louisiana	1	Tennessee	0
Maine	1	Texas	9
Maryland	0	Utah	2
Massachusetts	1	Vermont	0
Michigan	4	Virginia	0
Minnesota	6	Washington	4
Mississippi	1	West Virginia	2
Missouri	5	Wisconsin	6
Montana	1	Wyoming	2
	7T		W
Additional information developed by the survey bore upon minimum travel time required, maximum credits allowed, and relation of academic credit to travel. Computations on these phases are reproduced below :
Minimum Travel Time
Number of Institutions reporting on this
phase of the survey................... 85
Minimum requirements vary from 1 to 12 weeks or more. But 28% of all institutions
(Continued on Page 15)
PAKISTAN STUDY UNIT
A geography—social studies unit on the new nation, Pakistan, appears in this issue, beginning on page 3.
The regular contributors prepared this material—Enrique Portes and Lou A. Phillips for articles, Esther L. Berg for audio-visual aids, and Curriculum Specialist Eugenie G. Nadelman compiled the Suggestions for a Study Unit.
(jA333>4-(( /Vcc \ f ßoxßi I, Vx) lekrLo