Pan American
Worid A/omrs Teacher	11
PAKISTAN
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM : What can we learn about
this new nation, Pakistan?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	It is important that we find out all we can about the new countries of the world.
2.	It is interesting to compare the beginning of a new nation to the beginning of the United States.
3.	The visit of the Prime Minister of Pakistan to the United States made front page headlines.
4.	The Turkish-Pakistani agreement has been in the news.
5.	Some of Pakistan’s problems have been brought before the United Nations.
6.	The United States government made a loan to Pakistan.
7.	Pakistan has definitely lined up on the side of the West and we need her help in the free world’s defense against Communism.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION : 2 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. Approach:
1.	Of necessity most of the impetus and interest in Pakistan would have to stem from current news items. The recent headlines have been numerous. Among them such articles as those listed below would help to evoke the interest of your students:
“Pakistan Premier Here For Quick Tour of U.S.”
“Pakistanis in Ankara”
“Pakistan Prime Minister An Old Friend of U.S.”
“Pakistan to Get $105,000,000 Aid” “Indian-Pakistani Parleys on Water Due to Resume”
“Empire Talk Due on Pakistan Plea” “Pakistan Premier Recalled in Cri-
5.	In what ways is its history similar to the history of the U.S.?
6.	What position may this nation hold in the Asiatic defense?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies:—August 15, 1947 their “independence day” ; population of 80 million people, one of the most densely populated regions in the world; 7th largest country on the earth and the largest Muslim country ; peculiar geographical division into East and West Pakistan; Karachi, the capital; Dacca, Lahore, Hyderabad, Sukkur, Rawalpindi, Peshawar, cities; Indus, Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, Sutlej, Ganges, Brahmaputra and Surma rivers ; transportation by water and by air; irrigation systems; differences in climate in East and West Pakistan; differences in products and people; called “California of Asia” ; government includes a president, a governor of each of the 8 provinces elected for five years; a House of Representatives of 330 and a Senate of 50, elected for 5 years, equal rights for women, a Supreme Court of which the Chief Justice is appointed by the President, and all may serve until 65 years of age; Universities and scholarship students to the U.S.; languages; old culture; jute, the most important export;
other products and industries ; handicraft of the people ; flag of Pakistan ; famous people such as Mohammed Ali Jinnah, Tagore, Klawaja Nazi-mudlin, Linquat Ali Khan, Mohammed Ali and Ami-Ad Ali ; monetary system; special manufacture of badminton equipment and surgical instruments. (Many of these details will be found in this issue.)
2.	Language Arts :
a.	New Words :—many are listed in the vocabulary listing in this issue. Meaning of native words like purdah, pilau, saffron, kababs, chap-patties.
b.	Spelling :—words necessary for use in this unit. Spelling of names and places will need a great deal of careful thought.
c. Oral	Communication :—locating Pakistan on a map and tracing routes from the U.S. to Pakistan ; giving news reports of recent happenings ; imagining you are the Prime Minister and expressing your opinion of places of interest in the United States ; sharing information gathered by members of the class ; describing pictures in magazine articles and in visual aids ; interviewing to get information ; debates on questions for discussion suggested in this issue.
d.	Written Communication:—letters for information ; reports on some of the old culture ; writing a comparison between “independence day” July 4, 1776 and August 15, 1947 ; writing a description of a
“Ali Flying Home to Fight ‘Plot’ ”
2.	Students may have seen a recent movie about the Khyber Pass. This could be a starting point for a discussion.
3.	A review of new countries formed since the start of the United Nations would help to start the students thinking about Pakistan.
4.	Use of any of the Audio-Visual aids suggested in this issue would be an ideal approach.
5.	A listing of countries included in the British Commonwealth of Nations could help to center interest on Pakistan.
B. Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How did Pakistan come into being?
2.	What is the relationship of Pakistan to India? To the British Commonwealth? To the United States?
3.	How have its natural resources contributed to its quick growth?
4.	Who were some of the leaders in the founding of the new nation?
Govt, of Pakistan Photo
LAHORE — Punjab University, shown here, is a famous educational institution. In addition to its own schools and colleges, it has affiliated with it nearly 40 other colleges and secondary schools, many of them in other cities.