Pan American
World ArRmvs Teacher	5
PAKISTAN —NEW NATION
^P.Vl
Pakistan is the smaller of the two nations into which the former British Indian Empire was divided on August 15, 1947.
Whence the name of Pakistan? It was coined from the Persian pak (pure) and stan (place), and means “Land of the Pure.”
It is also interpreted as an acrostic: P for Punjab, A for Afghan (Province)—that is, North West Frontier Province, K for Kashmir, S for Sind, and (s)tan for the last syllable of Baluchistan. The word was first used as the symbol of a political ideal in 1933 by some Muslim students at Cambridge University. The idea was adopted, though not by name, by the Moslem League in 1940.
Pakistan is the seventh largest country on earth, the most important Muslim nation. It is the first country to have been conceived by a poet—Iqbal. It was realized, thanks to the vision and energies of a great leader, Ali Jinnah, and saved by the people themselves during the first days of its birth.
Some of us may still associate the young country of Pakistan with the legends of the past, with historic events of yesteryear—not yet forgotten—with the Khyber Pass—that 33-mile long gateway for invaders, that magnificent stone passageway that leads from Afganistan into Peshawar, through which Alexander the Great’s army penetrated India, and through which Muslims, ongols, Turks and Persians brought their faith to the subcontinent. Today you will find something else.
Pakistan is a new country, politically speaking. In the USA we go back to the American revolution in 1776. Pakistan starts counting from August 15, 1947, the date of the partition of India. Geographically it comprises two distinct areas separated from one another by a thousand miles of foreign territory. If you look at a map you will see that West Pakistan, whose principal seaport and capital is Karachi, adjoins Afghanistan and Iran in the west and the northwest, while the Indian province of East Punjab and the great Indian Desert bound it on the east. To the north lies the disputed state of Kashmir and Jammu, while to the south and southwest the country is washed by the Arabian Sea.
About the size of Texas and Ohio combined, West Pakistan is subdivided into four provinces, Baluchistan, Sind, the Punjab and the North West Frontier Province. A number of formerly independent Indian states have also acceded to Pakistan.
Running through West Pakistan are five enormous rivers: the main stream of the Indus, the Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi, and Sutlej. Eventually they all join and enter the sea south of Karachi, forming the gigantic delta of the Indus River. The upper reaches of these rivers are in Kashmir, and their sources are in the lofty Himalayas. Thanks to these rivers Pakistan is able to have a large system of irrigation canals which in turn make this country one of the richest wheat and cotton-growing areas in Asia.
The North West Province is known as the “California of Asia” because it is in the
By Enrique Portes
Pan American World Airways Photo
KHYBER PASS — This route through the mountains on the Afghan-Pakistan border was followed by invaders of India. Tamerlane, Baber, Alexander and the Moguls brought their armies through the Khyber Pass.
same latitude, enjoys a similar climate and produces almost every fruit and vegetable that is grown in California. In addition it grows bananas. Just as in California one can see snow capped peaks, deserts, and orange groves all at the same time. Beluchi-stan is a rugged land of barren mountains, rent by huge gorges, with vast deserts and stony plains. But thanks to irrigation, there are many green-ribboned valleys which produce rich crops and many kinds of delicious fruit.
East Pakistan, with an area considerably larger than the size of New York, is as flat as a pancake. The outstanding feature of East Pakistan is its network of mighty rivers, the Ganges, the Brahmaputra, and their many tributaries. In one place the Ganges is ten miles wide. These rivers contain an inexhaustible supply of fish and constitute an admirable and cheap means of transport. In the south are the famous Sundarbans, dense tropical jungles which abound in big game, including the Bengal tiger, leopard, bear, wild boar, and many other animals.
The climates of East and West Pakistan are different. West Pakistan is in general cold in winter and hot during the summer,
but this extreme climate is dry and healthy. East Pakistan is warm and humid. However, both East and West Pakistan have one feature in common—the coolness of the nights.
Strikingly different in products and climate, East and West Pakistan are just as different in the appearance of their inhabitants. In the West you will find tall men with high cheek-bones who often have large black mustaches and wear turbans, baggy trousers, and speak Urdu, while in East Pakistan the men are rather short, bearded, wear skirts, skullcaps, and speak Bengali. The camel is the main means of transport in West Pakistan, while in East Pakistan the people travel from village to village by boat. But in spite of all these differences and of being separated from one another by a thousand miles of Hindu India, the two areas which together constitute Pakistan are bound together by the strong tie of religion, Islam. Ducca, the principal city of East Pakistan and once a capital of the Moguls, contains more mosques than any other city in the whole subcontinent.
It is true that Pakistan is only seven years old, yet its territory and the people who live there have had a great past. West Pakistan, lying in the path of the conquerors of India,