Pan Amer(can
World Alrmye Teacher
insular	having the character of an island
lanzones	resemble plums
liberated	released, set free
martyr	one who submits to death rather than give up his belief
non-combatants	those who have duties other than fighting
ordeal	severe test of courage or strength
preponderant	superior number and force
putrid	tainted
ratified	approved, confirmed
rattan	long stem of climbing-palm
reciprocal	mutually exchanged, convertible
rehabilitation	restoration
sarongs	garments of colored silk or cloth
suffrage	vote in support of a measure or opinion, right of voting, participation in elections
tangible	within reach by touch, real
threshold	entrance, beginning
transitional	change from one condition to another
unassuming	modest, making no pretenses
vanquished	overcame, conquered, defeated
Bibliography
Juan of Manila—McSwigan—Dutton Dutch East Indies and the Philippines— De Leeuw—Holiday House Ocean Outposts-Islands of the Pacific— F ollett—Scribner
The Philippines—Hart & Wilson—American Book Co.
Picture Story of the Philippines—O’Neill— McKay
Picture Map Geography of the Pacific Islands—Quinn—Lippincott Swords and Sails in the Philippines— Sowers—American News I Served on Bataan—Redmond—Lippincott They Were Expendable—White—American News
Jungle Boy—Carveth—American News Today’s Geography of the World—Merrill History of the Philippines—Barrow—World Book
Crisis in the Philippines—Porter—Knopf The Philippines—Roosevelt—Sears A Brief History of the Philippines—Fernandez—Ginn
The Philippine Islands—Forbes—Harvard University Press
The Philippines—Hayden—Macmillan
Mother America — Romulo—• Doubleday Doran
The Philippine Islands and the U.S.—Grun-der & Livezey—Norman, University of Oklahoma Press
Native Peoples of the World—Keesing— Macmillan
Old World and Its Gifts—Meyer-Hamer-Grisso—Follett
Islands of the Pacific—Daniel—Putnam Odyssey of the Islands—Taylor—Scribner Orphans of the Pacific—Horn—Reynal & Hitchcock
Philippine Islands—Foster—Dodd Philippine Story—Bernstein—Farrar,
Straus
Philippine Islands: Description and Travel —Dobby—Wiley
Conquest of the Philippines by the United States—Storey—Putnam Spell of the Pacific—Strovén—Macmillan Good Fight—Quezon—Appleton Century The Open City — Mydans — Doubleday Doran
S even Thousand I slands—S pencer—Aladdin World Geography—Bradley—-Ginn,
Geography of the World—Packard-0ver-ton-W ord—Macmillan A Child’s Geography of the World—Hillyer —Appleton Century Crofts Men of the Sulu Sea—Follett—Scribner I Saw the Fall of the Philippines—Romulo —Doubleday Magazine Articles Look—June 2, 1953 Travel—Feb. 1953 Scholastic—Nov. 4, 1953 Newsweek—Aug. 2, 1954; May 3, 1954;
April 26, 1954 Readers Digest—Sept. 1954 America—March 1953	III.
Business World—May 2, 1953 Time—July 1953; Aug. 1954; June 1954 Colliers—Jan. 7, 1955 Outdoor Life—April 1954 New Republic—April 27, 1953
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION Philippine American Chamber of Commerce —50 Broad Street, N.Y.C.
Philippine Consulate General—350 Fifth Avenue, N.Y.C.
Philippine Travel Bureau—240 Broadway, N.Y.C.
Philippine Mission to the United Nations— Empire State Bldg., N.Y.C.
Some unfamiliar words you will come across in your reading:
1.	abaca—manila hemp
2.	corretelas and carronatas—native carriages
3.	timarau—wild buffalo
4.	chevrotain—mouse deer
5.	krises—prized swords
6.	tapis—sarong
7.	tao—farmer
8.	barrio—village
9.	cacique—landlord
10.	camotes—sweet potatoes
11.	Filipinas—young woman
12.	nipa—hut
13.	pine cloth—made from pineapple fibres
14.	baguio—typhoon
15.	Hukbelahaps—Huks
16.	cacabao—work animal
17.	copra—dried coconut
LET’S REVIEW WHAT WE READ:
I.	FUN WITH THE MAP
1.	Write in the names of the two largest islands.
2.	With an X locate Bataan, Corregi-dor, Leyte.
3.	Place a dot where you will find:
a.	Manila
b.	Tagaytay City
c.	Cebu
d.	Damboanga
e.	Davao
Philippines 11
f.	Iloilo
g.	Baguio
h.	Legaspi
i.	Zamboanga
4.	Show Manila Bay, Lingayen Gulf, Mt. Apo, Laguna de Bay. Mindanao deep.
5.	Locate Formosa, Tropic of Cancer, Borneo, International Date Line, Equator, China Sea, Celebes Sea, Borneo, Subic Bay.
WRITE a sentence telling what each of the following had to do with the history of the Philippines:
1. Quezon
2.	Osmena
3.	Rizal
4.	Magellan
5.	Villalobos
6.	Aguinaldo
7.	Roxas
8.	Legaspi
9.	Dewey
10.	Taft
11.	Wood
12.	Stimeon
13.	MacArthur
14.	Magsaysay
15.	Tydings & McDuffie
GENERAL questions about the Philippines:
1.	Of about how many islands do the Philippines consist?
2.	Name the capital. When did this become the capital?
3.	Who is at the head of the government?
4.	What is the monetary unit?
5.	What is the name of the oldest university?
6.	How many hours difference between the United States Pacific Coastal time and the time in the Philippines?
7. Name the highest peak.
8. Name two rivers.
9.	With what nation is most of the trading done?
10.	Who discovered these islands? When?
11.	Of what are these islands the foremost producers?
12.	What does July 4, 1945 mean to the Philippines?
13.	When was Manila captured by the Japanese?
14.	Who said, “I shall return?” Under what circumstances?
15.	Who was the first president?
16.	What people were called ‘‘the Vikings of the Pacific?”
17.	How many days to Manila by boat? (from the West coast) by plane?
18.	What are the two most important foods?
19.	Why was December 8, 1941, not December 7, the important day in the Philippines?
20.	How does the depth of the Mindanao deep compare with the .height of Mt. Everest?
21.	How were the Philippine Islands formed?
22.	How did the Islands get their name?
23.	What city in the Philippines has the largest area of any city in the world? How is this possible?
24.	What three types of natives wex-e found by the early explorei's?
25.	What happened to the government of the Islands during World War II?
FILL in the blanks:
1. The two largest islands are-------