8 Philippines
depending on U.S. dollar aid to perform the entire task of economic development, these projects are designed to produce long-term results through the introduction of modern scientific methods of agriculture and the initiative of the Filipino farmers themselves and their leaders. A comprehensive program designed to improve the living standard of farm people by increasing farm and forest production has already been put into action. Tangible results already have been registered in the several thousand tons of fertilizer distributed to farmers at low prices, in the equipment and supplies sent to the University of the Philippines’ College of Agriculture and other agencies, and most important, in the redirection of the activities of government agencies to help farmers apply better production methods.
Dollar Investments
Dollars have been spent to provide modern equipment and essential supplies for various branches of the Department of Agriculture and Natural Resources. In addition, the counterpart fund has supplied pesos to employ more technicians to help carry out the projects. The congress is being asked to provide for many of these new workers on a permanent basis. As a result it is possible to send trained workers, with equipment to help farm families adopt improved methods, and to make the best use of fertilizer, irrigation and other material assistance. Supporting this objective, a project has been developed to expand the Department’s information activities, principally by bringing information to farm people in understandable form through newspapers, radio, posters, leaflets and films.
Fishing ranks next to farming and livestock in point of usefulness and number of people depending upon it for a livelihood. Fish after rice, is the most important element in the Filipino diet. Some 2,000 fish abound in Philippine waters. Among these are sardines, mackerel, tuna, bonito, mullet, seabass, milkfish and pompano.
The Philippines possess extensive mineral wealth not yet fully estimated. Though copper, iron and lead have been mined on the Islands for centuries its mineral resources are considered barely tapped. The most important base metals produced in 1950 in the Islands are, in order of importance, iron, lead, chromite, copper, manganese and zinc. Gold is also produced. During the war, the mining industry of the country was abandoned and neglected with many plants being purposely destroyed. Rehabilitation is being augmented by the discovery of many new surface-mining opportunities.
For decades the Philippine people have looked to industrial expansion and diversification as the key to economic independence and a higher standard of living. Before the war industrial activity in the Islands was chiefly concerned with the processing of various agricultural products ; sugar, rice, pineapples, tobacco, coconuts and Manila hemp. There was also manufacturing of margarine, ,soap, textiles, rugs, furniture, leather goods, cement, and varnishes. Most of these industries have not only recovered from the setback of war, but have been able to expand considerably, notably the
Pa/v /UfwrcA/v
Would	Alrmye Teacher
TRADITIONAL COSTUME —The
blouse with the big puffed sleeves is made of pina cloth, a material woven from fibers of the pineapple leaf.
canning of pineapples and the processing of coconut products.
Since the war a number of new industries have been started through private initiative or under government sponsorship, among them a glass factory, knitting and plywood mills. Plans have been made for the introduction of many more industries, and in view of the variety of products grown or found in the Islands, the possibilities are great. However, the problems of adequate power and transportation facilities remain to be solved. Since the Islands have little coal, it is hoped that the problem of power supply to industry will be removed through the development of the plentiful waterpower resources.
Leading Exports
The ten leading exports of the Philippines are copra; abaca; dessicated coconut; sugar; coconut oil; embroideries ; canned pineapple; timber; chromite ore; and iron ore. Principal imports include cotton and manufactures; grains and preparations; mineral oils; iron and steel manufactures; dairy products; paper and manufactures; machinery (except agricultural and electrical) ; automobiles, parts and tires; rayon and other synthetic 'materials; and tobacco and manufactures. The United States is both the principal supplier and purchaser of Philippine products. Japan is second in both categories. Other important trading nations include Indonesia, Canada, Belgium, Great Britain, Germany, India, Italy and China.
The Philippines are commonly referred to as the third largest English speaking country in the world, second only to the United States and England. English is the language of all of the leading newspapers and magazines and most of the radio broadcasts. It is the language used in the schools and thus must be considered the leading language despite the fact that only about one-third of the total population now speak it. Tagalog, officially the national language is similarly spoken by one-third of the population and is now being taught as a course in all schools. There are also many native dialects. About
345,000 Filipinos speak Spanish. Although the Philippines are entirely within the tropic zone, the climate of the lowlands is merely mildly tropical and in the higher altitudes the air is cool and bracing. Snow is unknown, although ice and frost occur on some of the higher mountain peaks.
Luzon, the most northerly of the main islands is the most important from a commercial-industrial standpoint. Manila, leading city and capital of the Republic, is on Luzon, as are the cities of Legaspi, Baguio, San Fernando, Tuguegarao, Aparri and Baler. Rich in mineral resources, principally gold, manganese, chromite, iron and coal, Luzon has a huge hydroelectric power potential. It is also important agriculturally, with a substantial production of sugar, tobacco, rice, fruits and vegetables. The leading tobacco district is situated in the Cagayan Valley, the largest valley in the Islands made fertile by rich river-bank soils. There is a large industry in the manufacture of cigars and cigarettes in Manila where skilled hands roll tobacco leaves into finished products. West of the Cagayan Valley lies the pine-clad Mountain Province. In this province is the Ifugao area, famous for the rice terraces of the Igorots which cling to steep mountainsides, and the major gold mining-district in the Philippines.
Manila’s Harbor
Manila is the seat of government and cosmopolitan life. Situated on the Pasig River where the river enters the Bay of Manila, it has a population of one and a quarter million. Manila Bay has the finest harbor in the Orient. Dewey Boulevard with its modern hotels, restaurants and beautiful homes follows the shores of the Bay. Facing the Bay is a parklike area, known as the Luneta, where band concerts are held and people promenade during the afternoon and early evening hours. The average temperature in Manila is 79.9 degrees F. The city is also the center of art and learning with numerous exclusive convent schools and famous universities. The University of Santo Tomás was founded in 1611 making it twenty-five years older than Harvard University. Manila has one of the best water supplies in the world, an efficient telephone system and good transportation facilities. There are stores full of quality goods and a variety of beautiful native products.
A few miles south of Manila is Tagaytay Ridge with a refreshing temperate climate. Tagaytay City is perched right on the ridge overlooking Taal Lake with its volcanic island situated right in the middle. From this city, one can see as far as the China Sea and can survey acres of pineapple and vegetable fields, coconut palms and fruit and coffee trees. Across the Bay, west of Manila are the Bataan Peninsular and Corregidor Island, both famous battlegrounds during the Second World War.
Also on Luzon is the busy port of Legaspi. Located under the shadow of Mount Mayon, the coconut produce of the entire Bicol region is shipped through this port to foreign countries. Wild strawberries are found growing in the fertile volcanic soil of Mount Mayon. Baguio City, on the same island,