Pan American
World Airways Teacher	Philippines 9
THE PHILIPPINES
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugénie G. Nadelman
is noted as the beautiful mountain city of the Philippines. It is accessible only by road and air as train connections end in the foothills. 5,000 feet above sea level it has an average temperature of 64.2 degrees F. and is the Summer Capital of the nation as well as a popular vacation spot.
Mindanao, the second largest and most southerly of the major islands is often referred to as the frontier of the Philippines. In its virgin forests, fertile valleys and green-clad mountains lie some of the greatest untapped resources in the Far East. The Philippine Government is currently sponsoring large-scale development projects in Mindanao. Principal cities are Davao, Zamboanga and Cagayan de Oro. Abaca fiber (for rope), copra, hardwoods and pineapple constitute the principal exports. Davao is the Island’s bustling city and port of call. The biggest abaca plantations of the Philippines are on Mindanao. There are also vast grasslands which support an extensive cattle industry and a huge pineapple plantation and canning factory.
Sugar Bowl of Philippines
The central group of islands lying between Luzon and Mindanao are referred to as the Visayas. The principal islands in this group are Samar, Negros, Panay, Leyte, Cebu, Bohol and Masbate. Their chief city and port is Cebu City with Iloilo on Panay and Baca-lod on Negros other important communities. The Visayas are the “Sugar Bowl” of the Philippines, growing a major portion of the Republic’s sugar. Copra, coconut oil and lumber are other important crops.
Possibly one of the most important factors in the future of the Philippines, and one of the major contributions of American sovereignty is the Islands’ extensive educational system which reáches into the remote sections of the nation. The Public School system, established at the beginning of the century with the aid of American Educational Missionaries, has advanced steadily. Today, the buildings and grounds of public schools not only serve the primary purpose of housing pupils and teachers but also play an active part in educating the children who attend them, and the community, in the new modes of thought and conduct which are gradually modifying the life of the Filipino people.
The curricula of the Philippine public schools are basically similar to those in the United States. There are two outstanding differences however. One is that the Filipino pupil from his first day in school has to labor with a foreign language and to study every other subject in this alien tongue. The second is that the curricula are designed not only to give pupils an elementary academic education and some training for active citizenship, but also to develop habits of living which are not traditional in their homes and communities.
It is often said that, as a race, “the Filipinos have a passion for education”. Events have proven that they have an equal passion for freedom and for work. This trio is an unbeatable combination in the World of Today and will remain unbeatable in the World of Tomorrow as well.
I.	PRO.BLEM : What does the future hold
for the Philippine Islands?
A. Reasons for selection:
1.	Study of the Spanish American War and the beginnings of the United States as a World Power.
2.	Study of the small member nations of the United Nations.
3.	Study of World War II and the exciting incidents involving these islands.
4.	Realization of the strategic position of the Philippine Islands in the world news of today.
5.	The statement that war has left a deep scar on the Islands but the future is bright.
If. PROBABLE DURATION: 2 weeks
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Review conditions under which the United States became interested in the Philippine Islands.
2.	Stories of World War II. Mac-Arthur’s famous statement, “I shall return.”
3.	A review of one or more of the books mentioned in this Bibliography.
4.	The use of audio-visual aids mentioned in this issue.
5.	The story of a parent or relative who may have been stationed on the Philippine islands.
6.	The story of Carlos Romulo who has become well known in the United States through his writings and tnrough his work at the United Nations.
7.	Stories of recent elections and uprisings in the Philippine Islands.
8.	Plans for a cooperative Memorial Park on the Bataan Battlefield. A symbol of what Americans and Filipinos have accomplished together.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	How did the United States become interested in the Philippine Islands?
2.	What is and has been the relationship between the United States and the Philippine Islands?
3.	How did the Philippine Islands progress toward independence?
4.	Who were some of the leaders who made history in the Philippine Islands ?
5.	What is the position of the Philippine Islands in the world today?
6.	How have its natural resources contributed to its own building and to world trade?
7.	What are the future plans and possibilities?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies:—location of the group of islands; names of the few places we know, Luzon, Mindanao, Bataan Peninsula, Corregidor, Leyte;
history of the Islands before they were ceded to the United States ; after; the various U.S. Governor Generals of the Philippines ; work in the United Nations and SEATO ; Santo Tomas University; education in the Philippines ; makeup of the islands (volcanic and coral) ; Mt. Apo and Mt. Mayon, highest peaks ; most important rivers, Rio Grande de Cagayan, Mindanao and de Pampan-ga ; lakes ; Laguna de Bay and Mindanao lakes ; kinds of peoples : discovery by Magellan, 1521 ; contributions of Rizal, Quezon, Osmena, Aguinaldo, Roxas, Romulo, Magsay-say ; Mindanao deep ; elections and facts on government ; “sugar bowl” ; other important exports and imports ; products grown for domestic consumption ; part in World War II; position in the world today; various acts leading to independence, Hawes-Cutting, Tydings-McDuffie ; cities and capital : Manila, Quezon City, Cebu, Davao, Legaspi ; Huks ; language, Tagalog (87 languages in all) ; handicrafts of the people, embroidery, woodcarving ; tribes, Igorots, Bon-toks, Ifugaos ; most people farmers ; Foster-Quirino Agreement, 1950 ; work of Mutual Security Agency in helping the Philippine Islands. (Much information for the Social Studies subject matter may be found in this issue.)
2.	Science :—there is much of interest in this area in the study of the Philippines. Formation of the islands, archipelago ; various species of wild life, mouse deer, wild buffalo, water buffalo, parrots, parakeets, cockatoos, hornbills, bats, civets, mongooses ; earthquakes ; Mindanao deep, deepest place in the world’s oceans, 7 miles, 35,400 feet below the surface; pearl oysters ; tropical climate ; typhoons ; 3000 species of trees ; fruits, mangoes and papayas ; tropical hardwood forests; Tagaytay City, lake resort, volcano in the middle of a lake ; International Date Line, day changes in the Islands before it does in the United States; Taal, Manilla, many colored liquids.
3.	Mathematics :—there will be good application for figures and estimations in measuring distances from your home city to the Philippine Islands and in checking times and dates of arrivals and departures; figuring population on the various islands ; percentages belonging to the various tribes and religions ; total number of islands, number having names ; graphs of production and trade graphs showing with which countries most trading is done ; graphs showing