6 Philippines
THE PHILIPPINES
On March 24, 1934 an Act of Congress was signed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt. . . . On May 1, 1934 the Act was accepted by the Philippine Legislature. . . . On May 14, 1935 the Act was overwhelmingly ratified by the Philippine electorate .... and on July 4, 1946 the American Flag was lowered over the Philippine Islands and the Flag of the Republic of the Philippines was raised. The Act referred to above was one which established a transitional period, designated as the Philippine Commonwealth, at the end of which complete independence was automatically effective. Thus after four centuries of alien rule the Philippines emerged as the first emancipated democracy in the world after the Second World War.
Gateway to East
The twenty million people of the Philippines occupy a position that is unique in Asia and in the Far East. They have a Western culture in a purely Oriental setting. They are the only Christian nation in the area. They have a high literacy rate, better than most countries in the Far East. Located at the threshold of the Asian mainland, the Philippines act as a gateway to the vast eastern continent and are often called the bridge that links the West to the East. This location makes them a natural center for trade in the Orient and there is no reason why they cannot become the spearhead of commercial and economic development among the Free Nations of the Far East and Southeast Asia.
There are about 7,100 islands making up the Philippine Archipelago stretching approximately a thousand miles off the southeast coast of Asia, just above the Equator. To the west and north is the China Sea, beyond which lie China, Formosa and Japan. To the east is the Pacific Ocean with San Francisco 8,094 miles away by the usual ports of call. South are the Celebes Sea and the coastal waters of Borneo. By sea it takes 18 days to reach Manila from the west coast of the United States. Pan American Flying Clippers land at Manila’s International Airport a little over 46 flying hours after take-off from San Francisco. Stops are made at Honolulu and Wake and Guam.
The land area of the Islands totals 115,600 square miles. It is about the same size as Italy, somewhat bigger than the British Isles and somewhat smaller than Japan proper. Eleven big islands have an area exceeding 1,000 square miles: Luzon, in the north, is the largest with 40,814 square miles; Mindanao, in the south, is the second largest with 36,906 square miles. Each of these two is about the size of New York State. About 800 of the islands are fertile and inhabited. All have rugged and irregular coasts providing numerous harbors of all sizes. Their combined coastline is almost as long as that of the United States. The islands have a mountainous character with ranges generally following the coast. There are a number of active and dormant volcanoes with sev-
Pan American
Wqmd Airwave Teacher
AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRY, COMMERCE
By Lou A. Phillips
eral peaks rising to a height of nearly 10,000 feet sometimes abruptly from the seashore. There are a relatively small number of rivers and lakes. Mountains are heavily forested and valleys and plains are very fertile. The Philippine Deep only forty-five miles off the coast of northern Mindanao, is the world’s greatest ocean depth. Into it could be sunk all of Mount Everest, with a mile or so of water to spare.
Historical Trade Relations
Ferdinand Magellan and his navigators, tracing a westerly route to the Spice Islands, landed in the Philippines on March 16, 1521 and claimed the land for Spain. However the recorded history of the Islands dates back much further. As early as the Thirteenth Century the Chinese geographer Chao Ju-Kua made mention of the archipelago. The Philippines, then called Ma-ji were enjoying cultural and commercial relations with China, Japan, India, Siam, Cambodia, the Malay peninsula, Java, Sumatra, Borneo and the Moluccas. At the time of Spanish arrival there was a system of responsible government in the Islands and the people were wearing cotton and silk sarongs and were using gold, ivory, jade and silver ornaments. Spanish colonization work was not begun until 1565 when Legaspi took possession of the Philippines becoming their first civil governor. Spain ruled the Islands until 1898, a period of 370 years.
After the Spanish-American War in 1898, the Philippines were ceded to the United States by virtue of the Treaty of Paris of December 10, 1898. This was protested by
the Filipinos who had been Allies of the Americans at first. When the protest went unheeded the Filipinos fought against superior American forces for over two years. In the meantime they inaugurated the Malolos Revolutionary Congress on September 15, 1898 and proclaimed the Philippine Republic on January 23, 1899. The Filipinos were vanquished however and a period of American sovereignty began which proved from the very beginning to be benevolent and progressive.
Commonwealth Government
A Commonwealth Government was established on November 15, 1935 with President Manuel L. Quezon and Sergio Osmena as President and Vice President, respectively. It went into exile in America upon the capture of Manila by Japanese forces in 1942, only to return three years afterwards with the triumph of General Douglas MacArthur and his forces aided by hundreds of thousands of Filipino .guerrillas. The Commonwealth Government was restored in February, 1945 when Manila was finally liberated. During the Japanese Occupation, thousands of Filipino non-combatants were killed, agriculture and industry devastated, and public and private buildings destroyed. Since then, much rehabilitation work has been done in almost every line of national activity, but it will take the country many years before it can recover completely.
The foreign policy of the Republic of the Philippines has been definite since its independence. The basic principles of this policy are as follows: “adherence to, and local
TURE—A farming region near the city of Legaspi in southern Luzon. In the background is volcanic Mount Mayon, which appears also in the picture captioned “Legaspi”.