10 Philippines
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
number of people employed in various industries ; comparing various heights and depths on and around the island ; the money system (peso) ; comparison of size of various islands in square miles ; travel time, 18 days from the West coast by boat and 46 hours by plane; time line depicting the history of the Philippine Islands ; graphs showing amount of rainfall (average 120 inches during the year).
4.	Health :—story of the part the United States played in helping to rid the Islands of tropical diseases ; health campaigns in Manila ; diseases spread by some of the wild life; artesian wells helped to cut death rate ; favorite sports such as, baseball, boxing, polo, cock fighting, yachting races ; variety of foods for varieties of peoples such as rice, fish, corn, copra, tropical fruits, Chinese and Spanish foods.
5.	Language Arts :
a.	New words:—helpful vocabulary is listed at the end of this unit. There are also other words you will come across in your reading as pigmy, mestizo, tao, barrio, comotes, filipinas, pina cloth, abaca, copra, etc. These will also be explained at the end of the unit.
b.	Spelling:—many new words connected with this unit. The spelling of names of people and cities will be difficult.
c.	Oral Communication : — discussions on the ceding of the Philippines to the United States and their growth to independence; talking .over experiences in the Philippines during World War II ; reviewing some of the exciting books on the Philippines ; sharing facts through reports ; interviewing people ; describing pictures and commenting on visual aids.
d.	Written Communication:—letters to the Philippine delegation to the United Nations ; letters seeking information ; book reviews ; a flight log from your home city to Manila; an imaginary sightseeing trip to visit the various tribes ; imagining a descent into the Mindanao deep ; describing a trip through the “sugar bowl” ; writing of the events that led to Mac-Arthur’s famous statement, “I shall return !”
e.	Literature :—review of some of the material listed in the bibliography ; stories of the fall of Corrigedor, Bataan and Leyte ; writings of Carlos Romulo.; Jose Rizal ; Francisco Balagtas ; Guerrero, Apostal, Kalaw and Villa.
f.	Penmanship :—history of writing ; use of sharpened bamboo sticks as pens and palm leaves as paper.
6.	Art :—home handicrafts of the people such as embroidery, carving, bamboo work, jewelry, work on linens and other textiles; National Museum and
Art Gallery; western culture in oriental setting; painters de la Rosa, Arettano and Amoriolo.
7.	Music:—ballet schools and ballet public performances; every Sunday afternoon there are concerts by the Philippine Army Band; in Las Pinos there is a bamboo organ, the only one in the world; Song Source Material for Social Studies Units (Columbia University) songs of the Philippines, Page IS.
B.	Skills:
Using current periodicals; skimming, organizing and outlining pertinent data should be developed in this unit. Since there is so much discussion on what the future holds for these islands following daily newspapers will be very important.
C.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An appreciation of the difficulties facing all new nations as they struggle to make their independence work.
2.	An interest in the part the Philippine Islands has played and will continue to play in the present world situation.
3.	A realization of the similarities among peoples as they try to reach similar goals.
4.	An appreciation of the difficulties to be met in trying to unite so many islands inhabited by so many varied peoples.
5.	An interest in the lives of the past and present leaders.
6.	A realization of what the Philippine Islands have to offer other nations of the world.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	Things to do:
1.	A good deal of map work should accompany this study. Have the class make maps showing locations; routes to other parts of the world; products ; population, etc.
2.	Visit the United Nations (children 12 years of age or over may go as a class) and make arrangements to speak with a member of the Philippine delegation.
3.	Interview relatives who were in the Philippines during World War II.
4.	Have an exhibit of handicraft from the Philippines.
5.	Show the visual aids suggested in this issue and use them as a starting point for discussions.
6.	Make a scrap book of news items on the Philippines and a “Who’s Who” in the Philippines.
7.	Share some of the exciting events you read about in some of the books listed in the bibliography.
8.	Make charts illustrating the many species of wild life on the Islands.
9.	Compare the leaders of this republic’s fight for independence with those of the United States and other new republics.
10.	Chart the routes taken to the Philippines years ago and those taken today. Begin with the Chinese geographer Chao Ju Kua and end with the route of the Flying Clippers. Show a com-
parison of time and distance.
11.	Make charts showing the change of time at the International Date Line.
B.	Culmination:
1.	Have an exhibit which you may share with other classes.
2.	Have a “talking pages” program in the Assembly with some of the famous quotes from some of the books you have read and some of the historical episodes in the history of the Philippines.
3.	Use the questions in this issue as a quiz assembly program.
4.	Plan debate on the position of the Philippines in the world today and what we may or may not expect from the future.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
A.	Audio and Visual aids. Make good use of movies, strip films and reading materials.
B.	Pictures and magazines.
C.	Personnel.
D.	Realia.
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
A study of these islands should stir up interest in the other islands of the Pacific and the part they will take in the future of the world.
Further help in finding out facts:
adherence	attached to a cause or purpose
alien	owing allegiance to another country
allocations	setting apart, assignments
appropriation	anything set apart for special purpose
archipelago	large body of water studded with islands, a group of many islands
augmented	increased
benevolent	kindly, generous
bicameral	consisting of two chambers or branches
bilateral	two sides
canonized	regarded as a Saint
cataracts	resulting in complete or partial blindness
counterpart	a person or thing similar to another, a reproduction
desiccated	thoroughly dried, evaporated
devastated	destroyed, laid waste
dialect	form of speech peculiar to a people
diversification	variation
dormant	state of sleep, not used
electorate	those who elect, the'mass of voters
emancipated	released from authority or control, set free
espousal	protection of a party, a-doption of a cause
exploitation	using for selfish ends, bringing into use neglected natural resources
guerrillas	irregular band of warriors
heresy	opinion or view differing from recognized standards
implementation	making use of something to accomplish a purpose
incalculable	too numerous for estimation