4 Philippines
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
INTRAMURAS—The building is a ruined cathedral in the old walled city, called Intramuras, and a part of Manila. See the photo captioned “Local Transportation’’ for a closeup of the caretela (pony cart) on page 7.
the Lingayen Gulf which was the scene of one of the great naval battles of the last war. Crossing Subic Bay and immortal Bataan Peninsula you may see no scars of war since the lush tropical growth comes down to the water’s edge. You may circle the Island of Corregidor, heading across the immense reaches of Manila Bay for the Manila International Airport.
While Bataan and Corregidor look untouched from the air, you will see that the marks of war are still heavy on Manila. The savage fighting that took place in the liberation of Manila left a city in which scarcely a building is unscarred. The Old City of Manila, once wholly contained within medieval walls, is totally destroyed. Every government building, the great university, and every church was used for last-ditch defense by the Japanese, and it took artillery, flamethrowers, grenades, and machine guns to dig them out. When the Old City was finally leveled, the New City also took a bad beating before the last resistance was stamped out. Manila Bay is full of sunken ships whose rusting hulls jut out at crazy angles above the surface of the water near the shore. The damage in Manila is great and since 1945 the United States has spent hundreds of millions of dollars in reconstruction, rebuilding much of the city, but the devastation of war can still be seen everywhere.
The city presents an interesting mixture of the Occident and the Orient. Most men wear cotton pants and thin shirts, sometimes brightly colored; the women wear the simplest cotton dresses but always in the most attractive manner. The ever present American jeep is there, usually made over into a small bus called a “jeep-ney”. There is the
Dewey Boulevard, the best in town. In the old days it was bordered on either side by giant palm trees and lovely pink stucco homes. It is now surrounded in most part by a barren wasteland. The Manila Hotel with its elegant swimming pool is the social center of the town, and nobody seems to mind that the remains of one wing are in charred ruins. In Manila you will see and hear the big Wurlitzer juke box playing a jive tune and standing in one corner a brand new red-enameled soft-drink machine. The stores are filled with many familiar American products—from toothpaste to nylons. And to make you feel more at home, practically every Filipino speaks English.
The Filipino Studies
As soon as the United States took over the Philippines in 1898, Americans and Filipinos realized that the road to self-government had to be built on education. The first American teachers were soldiers who remained in the islands. In 1901 nearly 1,000 American teachers were sent there to train young Filipinos as teachers. Co-education was established. In four decades, nearly all the Filipinos between the ages of seven and ten were going to primary schools. More than one third of all children for intermediate training were in school; about one tenth of high school age were in high school. This was quite a record—a proud record.
In the primary schools students learn Tagalog, the national language, and all the required subjects. After finishing the intermediate school the student may enter high school. Learning a trade is stressed for the boys while cooking, sewing and housekeeping are emphasized for the girls. Baseball, basketball and other American sports are favorites among school children.
There are many agricultural schools and several universities. Santo Tomás, the oldest, was founded in 1611. The University of the Philippines, the youngest, was founded in 1908. Both are in Manila and offer courses in forestry, agriculture, music, fine arts, literature, economics and history. There are also schools of medicine, pharmacy, business administration, engineering, and education.
In the fields of literature, poetry, painting, the Philippines can claim a fine record. Painters such as Fabian de la Rosa, Juan M. Arellano and Fernando Amorsolo. In poetry, Francisco Balagtas and Jose Rizal who wrote two novels The Social Cancer and The Reign of Greed in addition to many essays and scientific articles. Fernando Guerrero, Cecilio Apostal and Teodore M. Kalaw are also well known writers.
In the English language, one can give special mention to Jose Garcia Villa who has written Footnote to Youth, and a book of poetry, Have Come, Am Here. Perhaps the best known Philippine author in the United States is General Carlos Romulo, the Philippine delegate to the United Nations. He has written many books, among them I Saw the Fall of the Philippines, Mother America, Brother Americans and many others. He is also a Pulitzer Prize winner for his newspaper articles.
A Filipino Hero
In Manila in the center of Luneta Park there is a monument to Jose Rizal, one of the best loved patriots of the Filipinos. The monument, sheltering his remains, stands near where he was executed in 1898. The Church officially canonized him as a Filipino Saint. “These emerald islands,” wrote Frank C. Laubach, “have but a single supreme hero who towers like a lofty mountain above all his countrymen .... in the majesty of his character, the quality of his intellect, and the beauty of his sacrifice.”
Born in 1861 Rizal showed very early in life both artistic and linguistic ability. He mastered no less than twenty languages. Before he was sixteen he received his Bachelor degree in Manila and that time he was already writing excellent poetry. He enrolled in medicine at Santo Tomás University but because of his ideas of independence could not graduate. He went to Madrid and later to Paris where he took his medical doctorate, always moved by the desire to remove the cataracts which threatened his mother’s sight. Rizal also studied in Germany, and traveled through Austria and Italy. Returning to the Philippines he operated successfully upon his mother’s eyes, the first operation for the removal of cataracts performed in the Orient.
For political reasons he fled to Europe where he wrote two novels which were smuggled into the Philippines and translated into several languages. These two books The Social Cancer and The Reign of Greed are considered today important political and literary documents. Against the advice of his friends, Rizal returned to Manila, was exiled to Dapitan, a small town or Mindanao, where he lived for a few years devoting himself to public welfare and the practice of medicine. Then in 1896 he was