Pan Amer rcA tv
World Amwayr Teacher
Philippines 3
THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By Enrique Portes
PASIG RIVER—These are sightseeing boats moored near the Manila Hotel. The Pasig River cuts through Manila and the sightseeing boats carry visitors through the city and out into the country past the duck farms.
Centuries ago a voyage to the Philippines was an ordeal. Not many Europeans could make it. Settlers were not looking for beautiful mountains and forests and waters. Only the hope of something else could lure them to a journey of eighty or more days from Spain to Mexico, and then over this mountainous land on for five or six months more. Sometimes it took a year to cross the Pacific from Mexico to the Philippines. Distances were incalculable. The dangers in crossing both oceans, especially the Pacific, were frightful. The high-pooped ships were ill adapted for such long voyages. Few could stand the hardships—always poor food, often famine, putrid water, battles on shipboard between men driven mad by thirst and hunger. The wonder is that man went there at all.
Today you can fly to the Philippines in a few hours indeed. Your PAA Clipper flies smoothly, safely towards its destination. You feel gay and confident. You smoke, read and talk in good company. You are served an exquisite dinner while your flying boat travels at great speed. You have left San Francisco, in a few hours you have arrived at Honolulu, then Wake, Guam and finally-—Manila. There it is, smiling, friendly, with people who welcome you and make you feel at home, for they have shared your tragic days of sorrows and your joyful days of victory. War has left a deep scar in the country and its cities, but the people are young again—the future is bright.
It was Fernando Magellan, the Portuguese navigator at the service of Spain, who discovered the Philippines on March 16, 1521. A Spanish exploration party—21 years later-—named the group of islands in honor oi Prince Philip, who became later Philip II of Spain. The Spanish Crown retained possession of the islands for the next 350 years.
After the Spanish-American War, the Philippines were ceded to the United States by the Treaty of Paris in 1899. The Filipinos, however, led by Emilio Aguinaldo, had declared their independence, and continued guerrilla warfare against U.S. troops until the capture of Aguinaldo in 1901. By July, 1902, peace was established in all parts of the islands except those inhabited by Moros who, even during the long centuries of Spanish domination, never ceased to be independent.
The first U. S. civilian governor-general was William Howard Taft who became later President of the United States. The Jones Law (1916) provided for the establishment of a Philippine legislature composed of an elective Senate and House of Representatives. Within a few years, The Tydings-McDuffie Act (1934) provided for complete Philippine independence in 1946. Under a constitution approved by the Philippine people on May 14, 1935, the Commonwealth of the Philippines was inaugurated on November 15 of the same year, under the presidency of Manuel Quezon, who was reelected in 1941.
What happened after December 8, 1941, (Philippine time) is well known by all of us. Japan invaded the islands, and after the fall of Bataan and Corregidor, the Philippine President and his government sought refuge in Washington. The suffering of the people under the Japanese can never be told in a few lines. United States forces reinvaded the islands in October, 1944, and after the liberation of Manila (February, 1945) the government of the islands was re-established. The new independent Republic came into being on July 4, 1946, as provided by the Tydings-McDuffie Act of 1934.
Thousands of Islands
The Philippine Republic is a nation of thousands of islands. The archipelago comprises three natural divisions: on the north, Luzon, Mindoro, and adjacent islands; in the center, the Visayas, of which the island of Samar is the largest, while Cebu, Panay, and Negros are preponderant in population and commerce; and on the south, the great island of Mindanao and the Sulu Archipelago extending to the very shores of Borneo. Of all the islands in the group Mindanao has the largest area of undeveloped agricultural land.
It is estimated that there are in the Philippines approximately 7,083 islands lying about 500 miles off the southeast coast of Asia and bounded on the west and north by the South China Sea, on the east by the Pacific, and on the south by the Celebes Sea. They extend north and south about 1,152 miles and east and west about 688 miles. Only 466 of the islands have an area of more than one square mile, and only 2,441 have names. Now if all the islands of the archipelago were pushed together, they would
make one island almost as large as Great Britain, or three-quarters that of insular Japan.
There are large and navigable rivers and abundant water power in numerous streams. The lakes in some of the larger islands are navigable and rich sources of fish.
Luzon (40,814 square miles) is the largest in the archipelago. Mountain ranges surround the fertile Cagayan Valley with its fields of tobacco. There are fern trees with silver-gray trunks and masses of fern-like leaves at the top. Mt. Mayon, nearly 8000 feet high, almost a perfect cone, is a sight to see. But the jewel of Luzon is Manila-—the heroic capital of the Philippines.
Mindanao (36,905 square miles) is the second largest island. You can sail from Manila in an inter-island steamer, passing-through Mindoro Strait, down the coast of Panay and Negros, and through the Sulu Sea to the town of Zamboanga on Mindanao. About thirty miles from Davao in southern Mindanao is Mt. Apo (9000 feet above sea level) the highest in the archipelago. Mindanao has mighty forests, untouched mineral resources, vast expanses awaiting man’s efforts to start countless industries. In the northeastern corner of the island is the Mindanao Deep, a great hole of 35,400 feet below sea level. It is more than a mile farther below the surface of the sea than the top of Mt. Everest, the highest in the world, is above sea level. The Mindanao Deep is the deepest known spot in all the oceans.
Manila
Manila, capital of the island of Luzon and of the Philippines, lies in the bay of the same name and at the mouth of the navigable Pasig. You approach Manila flying over