Page 3
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
GHANA-ALL-AFRICAN
by Enrique Portes
STATE
On the 6th of March, 1957, Ghana achieved independence within the British Commonwealth. The name of Ghana suddenly appeared in the press of the world, but it was not new to the people of that country.
Prime Minister Kwame Nkrumah, in his autobiography, explains why it was to be so:
“In spite of the fact that various members of the opposition parties had for many years associated themselves with the name of Ghana and that many of their shortlived parties had included this name in the titles, they had recently attacked the idea. In my speech I pointed out to the House (in Accra) that the name Ghana was deeply rooted in ancient African history, especially that of the western portion of Africa known as the Western Sudan. It kindled in the imagination of modern West African youth, I told them, the grandeur and the achievements of a great medieval civilization which our ancestors developed many centuries before the European penetration and subsequent domination of Africa began. According to tradition, the various peoples of tribal groups in the Gold Coast were originally members of this great empire. I pointed out that it was from this rich 'historical background that the name Ghana had been proposed as the new name of the Gold Coast upon the attainment of independence and that we took pride in the name, not out of romanticism, but as an inspiration for the future.”
The emergence of Ghana is the result of close cooperation between African leaders and British administrators in intensive preparation for self-government during the last decade. But the foundations of the new nation were laid many years ago. Law and order, gradually extended into the hinterland from small coastal trading settlements, expanded the area of peaceful commerce in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
The construction of railroads and roads, the coming of the steamship and ocean cable made possible closer and more efficient administration and provided the arteries for an expanding economy which, as time went on, could sustain higher living standards and an ever-increasing network of social services. On these foundations, modern institutions of local and central government were gradually constructed, incorporating much that was valuable in traditional practices, and, as the people gained political experience, more and more authority was transferred to them until, in March, 1957, only the final authority for government remained with the Governor.
| The total area of the Gold Coast (including Togoland) is nearly 92,000 square miles — almost the same as that of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 94,207 square miles. The country lies in the tropics and its climate is similar to that of other equatorial countries. The
population numbers about 4,500,000. There are no high mountains, but there are several ranges of hills rising to a maximum of about 3,000 feet. The central forest area is broken up into heavily wooded ridges and valleys. Rivers and streams are plentiful, but many are seasonal and are dry for much of the year. The principal river, the Volta, is formed by the junction of the Black and the White Voltas, both of which rise in the French African territory of Haute Volta.
According to tradition, the present inhabitants of Ghana are not, in most cases, descendants from its earliest peoples but from invading or migrating tribes. There are still many tribal divisions, and over fifty different languages or dialects are spoken in the country. But there are four main linguistic groups: the Akans, living principally on the coast, in the forest area of Ashanti and on the plains of the Volta; the Ga and Ewe speaking peoples in the south-east; and the Moshi-Dagomba speaking groups of the Northern Territories and northern Togoland.
The Settlement
The Gold Coast became known in Europe through Portuguese navigators who visited the country in the 15th century in search of gold, ivory and spices. In the course of the next three centuries the English, Danes,
Dutch, Germans and Portuguese all controlled various parts of the Coast at different periods. Not until the 19th century was the interior reached by Europeans and only in the 20th century was British rule established throughout the land and international boundaries defined.
A German protectorate in Togoland was established in 1884. At the outbreak of the First World War Anglo-French forces occupied Togoland and the country was partitioned into British and French spheres. A final Anglo-French agreement was signed in 1919, leaving nearly two-thirds of Togoland under French control.
British and French mandates were confirmed by the League of Nations in 1922, and from that date British Togoland was administered as an integral part of the Gold Coast. In 1946 it was placed under United Nations trusteeship.
The position of British Togoland in relation to the advance of the Gold Coast towards independence was considered at the United Nations, and on the recommendation of a UN Mission which visited the territory in August 1955, a plebiscite was held on May 9, 1956, to determine the territory’s future. The majority voted in favor of integration with an independent Gold Coast. So today Togoland is part of the new State of Ghana.
Ghana Information Service
ACCRA—This street scene in Ghana's capital includes a view of an open air market at left, shows mixture of traditional and Western clothing and reveals that Accra is plagued with a traffic problem common to all big cities—white square in the background is a sign which says llNo Parking".