Page 11
BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
GHANA
Nkrumah — The Autobiography of Kwame Nkrumah — Nelson
kWright — Black Power — Harper
Rechnayne — Gold Coast to Ghana — Murray
Magazine Articles
Scholastic — March 1, March 22, April 26
Christian Century — February 20, March 20, April 3, April 10, September 18
Negro History Bulletin — January, March, May, October, November
America — March 2, April 13 New Republic — March 18, April 8 Saturday Review of Literature — April 27 Reporter — March 21, May 2 United Nations Review — March, April United States News — March 8, March 15 Newsweek — March 11, September 2 Life — March 11, March 18, April 12 Foreign Policy Bulletin — March 15
Annals of American Academy of Political and Social Science — March
New Yorker — November 23 Library Journal — November 15
U.S. Department of State Bulletin 37 — March 25, July 15
^Time — March 18, September 2, September 30, October 7, October 14
School and Society — May 25 Travel — October
New York Times Magazine Section —
June 16
World Book Encyclopedia — 1957 Annual Supplement
Pan American World Airways Teacher — Nov.-Dee. 1950
For further information write:
Ghana Embassy — 2139 R Street — Washington, D.C.
VOCABULARY
aboriginal	primitive
accelerate	to act or move quickly
adequate	suitable, sufficient
alloys	combinations of 2 or more metals
amenities	extra necessities, pleasantnesses
ancillary	auxiliary, subordinate
animation	liveliness
authenticated	made valid, made authoritative
bauxite	principal source of metal aluminum
berth 1	a bunk or bed in a vessel or sleeping car
brokers	those who buy and sell for others for commission
cannas	red or yellow flowers, tropical plant
cassava	tropical shrubs or herbs
chieftaincy	rank of a leader
compressed	flattened, reduced	mechanization	mechanical order
consecrated	kept sacred, dedicated	metallurgical	extracting metals from ores
crenelated	decorated, notched	millet	cereal
edible	fit to eat	penetration	entering into
emergence	outgrowth	plebiscite	an expression of popular
emergent	urgent, unexpectedly		will by a vote
ethnically	racially	potentialities	possibilities, developments
exceed	to go beyond, surpass	preoccupation	engrossed, absorbed
exhilarating	cheering, stimulating	prodigious	enormous, immense
exotic	foreign, strange	promontory	a high point of land ex-
external	outside		tending into the sea
factors	commission merchants	protectorate	country or region under
ferro-concrete	concrete reinforced by iron	provocative	protection of another
	or steel bars		exciting anger, offending
fetish	object of devotion, blind acceptance	quay	wharf where vessels unload
grandeur	impresses	rectilinear	straight
groundnuts	wild beans	savannah	treeless plain
harmattan	dry wind on West coast of Africa, parches skin and withers vegetation	shea	large tree of star apple family growing only in Western tropical Africa
hinterland	land behind seacoast or		and yielding shea-butter
	river shore	squalls	sudden bursts of winds
immunization	protection from infection	staple	a principal product
initiative	ability for independent ac-	subsidiary	supplementary, auxiliary
	tion	subsistence	support
intermediaries	parties who come between	suffrage	privilege of voting
lagoons	bodies of shallow, still	superseded	replaced, took the place of
legitimate	water	togas	large outer robes such as
	lawful, genuine		worn by the Romans
lighters	barge like vessels	trawler	vessel used for dragging
linguistic	adept in languages	utilization	use for improvement
mandates	charges of other nations	vanguard	advance
manganese	metallic element used in	veneers	thin layers of choice wood
	making glass and paints	yams	variety of sweet potatoes
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
GHANA
LOCATION: Ghana lies on the West Coast of Africa and it is surrounded by French West Africa on its North, East and West borders, and by the Gulf of Guinea to the South. Accra, the capital, is 6678 airmiles from New York and 3000 airmiles from Johannesburg.
CHARACTERISTICS: A very interesting combination of modern and old Africa can be found within Ghana’s boundaries. The people are extremely friendly and sincerely interested in welcoming foreign visitors. Excellent roads from the modern capital, Accra, to Ashanti, ancient African Nation with an extremely interesting history, and to the Northern Territories where African and Moslem cultures mixed to form a fascinating pattern of contrast.
POPULATION: Approximately 4,691,000. Ethnically the population represents a wide variety of peoples, ranging from the Akans in the coastal area and Ashanti, to the Ga — Adagmes and Ewes of the South-East and the Mamprusi and Dagarti of the Northern Territories.
CAPITAL: Accra, population about 150,000.
GOVERNMENT: Formerly a British Colony, Ghana attained Independence on March 6th, 1957.
HOW TO GET THERE: By Pan American Clipper. 20 hours from New York, elapsed time.
The information presented above is from the PAA world travel guide book “Neiu Horizons”. (1958 edition).
“New Horizons” now is available in a hard cover edition, published for PAA at $1.00 by Simon and Schuster.
It contains 16,337 facts about 82 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.