Pan American
World Airways Teacher	United Kingdom 7
Here also are the largest sugar refineries and breweries in the kingdom. Another important manufacturing center is located in the vicinity of the coal and iron fields in Central England. Birmingham is the “Pittsburgh of England”, for there are located most of the great steel mills of the country.
Earther north, midway between the Irish and North seas, lies Sheffield, also a steel town, but especially noted for its fine cutlery. Leeds, north of Sheffield, ranks first in the manufacture of woolens, and Manchester, lying between Sheffield and Liverpool, is the nation’s greatest cotton-manufacturing center. Bradford, near Leeds, is noted for both woolen and cotton manufactures. Bristol, England’s seventh largest city, located due west of London on the Bristol Channel, specializes in the manufacture of glass, soap, chemicals, sugar and machinery. Liverpool, second ranking seaport of England, has a heavy export and import trade, and shipbuilding yards, dry docks, and wharves dot its busy waterfront.
While English farmers are but one fifth as numerous as factory workers, agriculture is nevertheless of extreme importance Unlike the farms of the United States, most of those in England are small, cut into irregularly shaped, fields, and separated by stone walls or hedges. Most of the land is owned by proprietors of large estates, who rent out the farms to tenants. However, successive generations of tenants of the same family usually operate a particular farm and develop a feeling that they are, in a sense, owners of the land.
Farming in England consists chiefly in the raising of grains such as wheat, barley and oats. Potatoes and garden vegetables also form a large part of the annual farm production. Stock raising is important because of the heavy rainfall and luxurious grass. Several fine breeds of livestock, including Durham and Devonshire cattle, Cotswold and Southdown sheep, and Berkshire hogs originated there.
During World War II, when the men were at the front, farming was taken over by the English women, who learned to operate tractors and every other labor-saving device for handling the farm crops. Under this system, grain production reached a new high partly because the pastures and woodlands never before farmed were brought into cultivation. In spite of intensive farming, England must still depend to a large extent on the colonies for most of the food supply of the people.
Wales
Though so closely integrated with England and the Empire, Wales is still a country of its own, with its own traditional customs, its own language, character and love of song. Small, rugged and mountainous, Wales has an area of 7,466 square miles and a population of about 2,200,000. Mountain ranges traverse the entire country and are most numerous in the north, where Mount Snowdon rises to a height of 3,560 feet, the highest point of England and Wales. The capital and largest city of Wales is Cardiff, with a population of about 224,000.
Most of the wealth of Wales is derived from its rich mineral resources, which include coal, iron, copper, zinc, tin, lead and gold. Of these, coal is the most important
and accounts for most of the mineral output of Wales. Welsh coal provides about twenty percent of the entire supply of the British Isles. Cardiff, located near the point where the Severn River joins the Bristol Channel, ranks among the most important coal port-cities in the world. Iron, steel and copper manufacturing plants are common in Wales. Other products include woolen goods, coarse cloth and hosiery. Agriculture is practiced mostly in the south. Crops include oats and barley. Livestock raising is also important.
Welsh, a branch of the Celtic tongue, is the language of Wales, although the official language is English and is spoken by the great majority of the people.
Scotland
Some people in their minds connect Scotland with whisky and let it go at that, but to the vast majority it is a legendary land of heather, moors, rocky crags, sinuous lochs, bold mountains and cliffs. With its craggy mountains, forested slopes, deeply indented seacoasts, numberless lakes and thrifty, hardy people, Scotland has for centuries been praised in poetry, song and legend. Its warring clans, rugged beauty and heroism are famed throughout the English-speaking world.
Scotland is separated from England by the Cheviot Hills and the Solway Firth. To it belong the Hebrides, Orkneys, Shetlands and numerous other islands, all contributing to its area of 30,405 square miles. No country of its size exceeds Scotland in fine harbors, for its long coastline is sharply indented. Scotland has three main geographic divisions—the Highlands, the central Lowlands and the southern Uplands. The highest point in the Highlands is Ben Nevis, an elevation of 4,406 feet overlooking Loch Linnhe. The central Lowlands are marked with numerous low mountains, lakes and rapid streams. The southern Uplands, al-
though mountainous, do not reach the altitude of the Highlands.
Scotland’s most important rivers, including the Tweed, Forth, Tay, Dee and Don, flow eastward into the North Sea. The Clyde, Ayr, Doon, and Nith flow westward. The Clyde, though small is Scotland’s most important stream, for on it moves Glasgow’s ocean commerce. Coal and iron are by far the most important of Scotland’s minerals. In Ayr County, in Southwestern Scotland, is found much of the iron ore that makes Glasgow the “Birmingham” of Scotland. Other minerals include shale rock (from which oil is obtained), clay, lead, slate, limestone and granite.
Fishing is an important industry, both along the coast and in the lakes and streams. Cod, haddock, and herring annually bring a large return to Scottish fishermen. The salmon, whale, and seal industries are almost entirely controlled by large companies. Much of the land cannot be farmed, the Highland areas being devoted chiefly to grazing. Great flocks of sheep, Jersey, Angus, Galloway, and Ayrshire cattle, and Clydesdale horses add materially to Scotland’s prestige as a livestock nation. Oats, barley, potatoes, turnips, and hay are the only crops of importance.
Fully one fourth of the people are engaged in the various manufacturing industries. Important industrial products are cotton, woolen, and linen goods. Glasgow’s iron and steel manufacturing is one of the most important enterprises in Great Britain. Along J:he River Clyde are great shipbuilding yards. Of importance also' among manufactures are gloves, hosiery, whisky, sugar and glass.
The Scottish language, until the fifteenth century was Gaelic or Celtic. Somewhat later, the language became influenced by French and Latin. The modern tongue of Scotland resembles modern English, but is
PICCADILLY CIRCUS----The term circus refers to its circular shape. Piccadilly
Circus may be compared with Times Square in New York City.