Pan American
12 United Kingdom___________WORLD AIRWAYS
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
THE UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND
Space does not permit listing ail available films and film strips. It is suggested that teachers write to the British Information Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y. for their catalogue “Films from Britain.”
Motion Pictures
The Grey Metropolis, 15 min. sound, b&w. Film Images, Inc., 1860 Broadway, New York 23, N. Y. Historic Edinburgh is the “grey metropolis” of this extraordinary travel film. Cloaked in a white, wet mist, it never fails to attract the visitor despite its cold austerity. For the native, no city can take its place. Robert Louis Stevenson was born in Edinburgh in 1850; and it is his impressions of “Auld Reekie,” as he recorded them in his later years, that form the commentary for this picture. Two main themes emerge: the almost irresistible urge that comes to most Edinburghers to leave the grey, forbidding city; and the firm hold its unyielding beauty and vast tradition have upon their hearts. Beautifully photographed, sensitively edited. The Grey Metropolis is a production of Britain’s experimental NORTON PARK GROUP.
British Isles, 11 min., sound, color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111. Provides a comprehensive, graphic survey of the area including England, Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Surveys representative aspects of British life and explains how the region has developed as one of the world’s most important industrial and commercial centers. Interprets with animated drawings, the geographical factors that have influenced this development; and emphasizes Britain’s interdependence with the rest of the world
Great Britain—Its Geographical Position, 11 min. sound, b&w. B. I. S., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. C. The major purpose of this film is to show the importance of Britain’s geographical position and the way in which it affects so much of the life and relationships of its people. As the film shows, the whole of Great Britain lies between the lines of latitude 50 degrees and 60 degrees ndrth, and by a revolving globe 'it is clearly shown that it is the most northerly of all the populous countries in the world. But in spite of the high latitudes she experiences open Winters. In the final sequences, the oceanic position of Great Britain is shown and the circulation of the routes moves as the globe is turned, revealing for the first time on film, by a creative use of animation technique, the dynamic pattern of Britain’s sea conditions to the Baltic, to the Mediterranean Sea and beyond to the Indian Ocean, and across the North Atlantic Oce&n. Lastly there is shown the pattern of world air routes focused on
London. London is the center of the land hemisphere, and London of the Air Age is the center of air communications.
'The Colonics and Britain, 18 min. sound, b&w. B. I. S., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. G. With colonial problems in relation to the Western World in the news headlines each day, this is an excellent overall picture of how one country and its colonial citizens are meeting the every day problems of health, soil erosion, education, the need for agricultural advancements, greater industrial output and most important, preparation for fulfillment of their natural and rightful desire for self-government. It is an intimate glimpse into the lives of Great Britain’s 67 million colonial citizens, scattered all over the world.
David, 38 min., sound, b&w. B. I. S., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. C. This film tells the story of David, who becomes a miner as a young boy and ends his life as a caretaker in a school. The film captures all the flavor of life in a Welsh mining town and reflects' the character of a nation in the life story of one man. All the events portrayed are based on actual events which occurred in the life of the central character.
Ulster Magazine, 20 min., sound, color. An up-to-date account of life in Northern Ireland today. Beginning with an examination of the country’s mode of government, her people and their way of life, the film goes on to explore some of the latest developments in Ulster’s aviation industry as well as the strides made in agriculture and the methods by which the Northern Irish produce the world’s finest linen from flax they grow in the vicinity of Londonderry as well as detailed accounts of the workings of the shipbuilding industry of Belfast and Antrim. An additional factor which makes this one of the best background pictures of Ulster is the thorough explanation of the key position held by the country in its relationship with Great Britain in the defense system of the Western World with particular reference to NATO.
English Farm Family, 12 min. sound, b&w. color. Produced by the International Film Foundation. McGraw Hill Text-Film Dept. 330 West 42nd Street, N. Y. C. Shows modern farming in England at its most advanced, and some of the agricultural problems confronting England. A model wheat and dairy farm in the Reading area is depicted.
British Trade and Industry, 20 min. sound, b&w. Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates. United-World Education, 1445 Park Ave., N. Y. C. Shows London the
metropolis, the port, financial headquarters and government seat. After an animated sequence locating industries, resources and transportation, the film takes us to Newcastle and follows the tasks of a British family there.
Britain’s New Resources, 10 .min. sound, b&w. B.I.S. British Information Services, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, N. Y. C. Britain’s economic position turns her ingenuity more and more upon her own resources, seeing what new ones can be exploited and by what means she can develop the use of raw materials already familiar.
Coronation Day, 20 min. sound, Technicolor, B.I.S. From the procession to Westminster Abbey through the ritual inside the Abbey and the return procession, all the highlights of Queen Elizabeth’s Coronation are presented here in beautiful colors.
The Future of Scotland, 20 min. sound, b&w. B. I. S. The MODERN AGE release carefully explores the industrial condition, the hydro-electric schemes, the arts and the political attitudes of Scotland and raises the problem of self-support.
Snowdonia, 17 min. sound, Technicolor, B.I.S. Situated in northwest Wales, Snowdonia is famous for its beautiful scenery. This skillfully photographed film offers scenes of its broad lakes and the low-lying-valley farms. It shows famous castles of great historic interest.
British Isles: Land and People, 10 min. sound, b&w. color. Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago, 111. Shows how and why the people of the British Isles have made excellent use of their limited space and resources and how they have built their islands into one of the world trade centers.
Film Strips
Britain, 103 Frames, silent with captions. Life Magazine and S.V.E. 1345 West Di-versey Park, Chicago, 111. Explains the political organization of the United Kingdom and how it operates. Describes the role and function of the Monarchy.
Triumph of Parliament, 44 frames, silent, captions. Heritage Filmstrips Inc. 89-11 63rd Drive, Rego Park 24, N. Y. This filmstrip is one of the “Background of Freedom” series. An analytical semi-chronological study of the rise of the British Parliament as the first great representative institution of modern democratic times.
Britain 1900-1950, 29 frames, silent, captions. British Information Service. 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. Never before in the history of mankind have so few years seen such tremendous changes in the world and in living as the period 1900-1950.
The Coronation, 36 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. In addition to the Coronation, this strip shows the trips taken after the ritual by Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh through England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Edinburgh—Festival City, 44 frames, silent, captions, B.I.S. Edinburgh, the capital of Scotland, is an ancient historical city. This great metropolis is a center of culture.