Pan American
8 United Kingdom	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
The judicial branch of the government is headed by the House of Lords and the judicial committee of the Privy Council.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL — Although there were direct hits within feet during the Battle of Britain, St. Paul’s emerged unscathed.
still colored by local dialects.
The People of Britain
No people on earth show more characteristic national traits than the British people. They are outstanding in their persistence, never seeming to know the meaning of defeat. While not typical fighting people, they have found it necessary to protect their homeland twice within two decades. Strongly intellectual and inventive, Englishmen have contributed much to the world of science. Some of the finest literature of the world has been written in Great Britain. Industrious, the English have continually made the best of the circumstances at hand. With a coastline of over 2,000 miles, a dense population and a limited area, the English were forced to give most of their attention to seaborne commerce in order that food and raw materials might be imported and a wide market found for the country’s manufactures. Unexcelled as colonizers, English explorers of early times covered the globe, claiming rich, productive lands for the Mother Country. These lands have supplied a home for the overflow of population, as well as a wealth of raw materials. The countries which were largely settled by British subjects, have been made self-governing nations in the British Commonwealth.
Great Britain is a constitutional, hereditary monarchy, headed by the king, the Cabinet, the House of Lords, and the House of Commons. Unlike that of the United States, the Constitution of Britain is largely unwritten and has developed through centuries of precedent. It is not a single, document, but is made up of the various acts of Parliament, maxims, and agreements from the Middle Ages to the present time. The House of Commons and the House of Lords make up the legislative branch of the government. Members of the House of Commons are elected by popular vote for a term of five years. The House of Lords is composed largely of hereditary peers. The leader
of the House of Lords is the Lord High Chancellor. Women have had the right to sit in Parliament since 1918.
Parliament must, according to law, meet at least once every three years. However, it usually meets every year. All taxation and appropriation bills must originate in the House of Commons. Since 1911 a money bill may become law without the approval of the House of Lords and a public bill that has passed three readings in the House of Commons also can become a law without the approval of the House of Lords.
Many of the countries of the world have cities more beautiful than those found in Great Britain. Some have cities which are more gay. But none has any which are as fascinating. While wars have robbed cities of some of their priceless treasures, leaving scars, British pride and spirit remain as always. Streets are paved with history. The best in entertainment and sport is available. There are wonderful museums and galleries housing the most renowned of the world’s masterpieces of art and invention. Visitors can spend plenty of money or can enjoy themselves without spending too much. Whatever course is taken, Clipper travelers cannot help but enjoy their visit to Great Britain.
the soap
HYDE PARK CORNER — Hyde Park is famous for, among other things, box orators who may declaim upon any subject imaginable.
The king (or queen) represents the executive branch and holds all powers not definitely forbidden by Parliament. He has the power to summon and dissolve Parliament, to declare war, to negotiate treaties, to issue passports, to appoint, promote and remove civil officers, to appoint the high clerical officers of the Established Church and to grant pardons. He has never vetoed a measure passed by Parliament since 1707 although he actually has the power to do so. The king wields power through a ministry selected from the members of Parliament who belong to the political party dominating the House of Commons. The king chooses the leader of the majority party to be Prime Minister, and he, in turn, chooses the members of the Cabinet from his own party. These ministers may be members of either the House of Lords or the House of Commons ; but if they are commoners, they must resign when appointed and be re-elected by the people. Although the size of the Cabinet varies, it usually has only about twelve members.