10 United Kingdom
Pan Amerìcan
Won io Airways Tfachfr
b.	Spelling:—new words of the unit. Compare the English spelling of some of our everyday words. Learn to spell the names of famous people and famous places mentioned. (Could you learn to spell the longest name appearing on any railroad station? Here it is-—-Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwy-rndrobwllllandysilliogogogoch. It is a station in Wales. Translation— Church of St. Mary in a hollow of white hazel, near to a rapid whirlpool and to Saint Tysilio’s church, close by a red cave. In Welsh the letters j, k, q, x, z, do not appear. W and Y are sometimes used as vowels. 11 is pronounced as thl and dd as th.)
c.	Oral Communication interviewing people who came from or who have visited these countries; talking with exchange students ; discussing the difference between an English play or movie and an American one; reviewing a speech by Churchill or Eden; reporting on current news events; debating some of the current issues which our own diplomats are now discussing with representatives of Great Britain ; telling the class about information gathered in answer to a question explaining pictures of places of interest.
d.	Written Communication:—imaginary stories such as:
I lunched with Queen Elizabeth
My visit w.ith Robin Hood in Sherwood Forest
I was a guest at 10 Downing Street
My service as a guard at Buckingham Palace
Tour Westminister Abbey with me or real stories about visits to cotton and linen mills, shipyards, fishing banks, famous places, other industrial centers; reports on assigned subjects; writing letters asking for information ; writing letters to pen pals; writing short statements to be used with pictures, slides, etc.
e.	Literature:—(this listing will not be complete but students should become familiar with some of the names listed depending upon the grade level and the amount of time) Morley, Tennyson, Chaucer, Spenser, Shakespeare, Walton, Milton, Johnson, Wordsworth, Keats, Thackeray, Dickens, Bronte, Browning, Doyle, Noyes, Defoe, Swift, Goldsmith, Byron, Coleridge, Shelley, Scott, Rosetti, Masefield, Churchill, T. S. Eliot, Burns. The books listed in the bibliography should also be used.
3.	SCIENCE:—the climatic conditions in the United Kingdom; nearness to the sea; the London fog; peat bogs; sinking of the land; mineral deposits; fisheries; variations in the terrain; belt of limestone; heather; rainfall.
4.	HEALTH:—rugged men of Wales; work in the mines; excessive rainfall in parts ; fogs ; nearness to water ; typical dishes which have become part of American menus such as potatoes, yorkshire pudding, fish and chips; National health laws; health resorts; sports such as
cricket, soccer, tennis, rugby; dance of Ireland, -England and Scotland.
5.	MUSIC:—“America” is the same tune as “God Save the King” ; many famous songs such as :
Drink to Me Only With Thine Eyes, Lavender Blue, The Low Back Car, John Peel, The Minstrel Boy, Annie Laurie, Auld Lang Syne, Blue Bells of Scotland, The Campbells are Coming, Coming Through the Rye, Flow Gently Sweet Afton, All Through the Night (consult Song Source Material for Social Studies Units—Wright & Lossing for many others.)
Alec Templeton of present day music; Sir Thomas Beecham’s Symphony Orchestra ; Gilbert and Sullivan operettas : International Festival of Music and Drama at Edinburgh.
6.	ART :—famous painters such as Gainsborough, Reynolds, Lawrence, Turner; the Royal Academy ; sculptors ; early English architecture ; furniture such as Chippendale, Sheraton, Hepplewhite ; pottery such as Wedgewood and Spode.
7.	MATHEMATICS :—value of money such as pound, shilling, guinea, quid, bob, florin, half crown ; graphs of exports and imports ; graphs showing comparative populations; air miles and cost in planning a trip from the United States ; distances in planning a sightseeing trip through the United Kingdom.
B.	SKILLS
There is so much to read about and so many sources of information that skimming, writing down the main ideas and outlining would be valuable skills to cultivate for this unit.
C.	ATTITUDES. INTERESTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS :
1.	A realization and understanding of the great culture that has come from the United Kingdom.
2.	An interest in current problems having an effect on thè United Kingdom and therefore on the rest of the world.
3.	An understanding of what separated our countries in 1776 and what makes us work so closely together now.
4.	An interest in the famous places we hear about so often.
5.	An interest in the famous names of past and present.
6.	An understanding of all that the United Kingdom has to offer the world today.
V.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A.	THINGS TO DO:
1.	Collect pictures of famous people, past and present. Write a sentence or two about each.
2.	Collect pictures of famous places. Learn why each is famous.
3.	Keep the Bulletin Board up to date with the United Kingdom in the news.
4.	Collect things made in England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales. Exhibit them.
5.	Find out the history of the famous Scotch plaids.
6.	Collect coins from the United Kingdom.
7.	Make a list of various words and expressions such as : bobbie for policeman, lift for elevator; petrol for gas; cheerio, that isn’t cricket.
8.	Prepare a quiz using names of famous people and places.
9.	Learn some folk dances and songs of the United Kingdom. Have a music festival.
10.	Show movies and slides.
11.	Invite someone who has visited these countries to talk to your class.
12.	Plan a sightseeing trip to all the interesting places in the United Kingdom.
13.	Read books listed in the bibliography and the works of some of the pepole listed under literature.
14.	Have an art exhibit of famous paintings.
15.	On a large map of the United Kingdom show the most important cities, waterways, products, birthplaces of famous people and famous places.
16.	On a map of the world outline Queen Elizabeth’s trip.
17.	Cut out items about English movies being shown here as well as plays on Broadway.
18.	Dress dolls in native costumes.
19.	Make models showing different types of English architecture.
20.	Debate some of the current issues such as the recent statement “Let the U.S. go it alone.”
B.	CULMINATION:
1.	Invite other classes to share your exhibits.
2.	Prepare a play which will acquaint the audience with famous people and places.
3.	Make slides of people about whom you have studied and ask someone to tell who the person is and why he is famous.
4.	With an opaque projector this can be done with pictures of places and people. A very intersting quiz and a very valuable review may be combined.
5.	Have a song and dance festival.
6.	Many of the items mentioned in V. A. can be used for a culmination.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
A.	As many books, magazines and pictures as possible.
B.	Audio visual aids of all kinds especially travel folders, globe, atlas, records, movies, slides, strip films.
C.	Personnel
1.	Teachers, parents, pupils who have been to the United Kingdom
2.	Exchange students
3.	Airline personnel
VII.	LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
This unit should create an interest in other parts of the British Commonwealth of Nations. A study of these will take the class to all parts of the world.
The list that follows will help you to understand the reading matter a little better :
allegedly
assets
astride
belated
chameleon
chaos
commodious
components
concentrated
depleted
dialects
dissenters
distilled
materially true things worth something part on each side delayed
changeful, variable disorder, confusion spacious, convenient parts of
brought together reduced, lessened local peculiarities of guage
those who disagree purified
lan-