►
September - October, 1948
MAIL BAG...
Gentlemen:
In the last copy of World Airways Teacher, mention was made of special air cruises to various parts of Latin America, this summer.
I am interested in finding out what trips are available; the price; arrangements for hotel accommodations and meals; whether passports are needed for certain countries, etc.
At present, I am attending summer school at the University of Michigan, and it is not convenient for me to go to Detroit to check on information. I should be interested in such a trip after August 15.
Does Pan American have a connecting link between Detroit and New Orleans or Detroit and New York?
What is the cost of a trip to Yucatan and Guatemala? Of one to Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico and Virgin Islands (St. Thomas) ? These are two possibilities which interest me.
I shall appreciate any information that you may furnish me.
I enjoy reading the interesting articles that appear in World Airways Teacher.
You may be interested to know that I took a brief but most enjoyable trip via Pan American between Miami and Havana and return in 1941.
Clara Jean Leith Brighton, Michigan
IVe publish Miss Leith’s letter as a\ broad hint to other teachers.
It is always a pleasure to furnish information about world air travel. Write to Educational Service or any PAA ticket office.
Dear Sir:
Your last World Airways Teacher has such a wealth of interesting articles on S. American countries to help my seventh graders in their unit on S.A.! Thank you many, many times.
We will make quite a detailed study of this unit. Would it be possible to obtain a copy of World Airways Teacher for each of my 35 pupils? At what cost?
Any materials available would be most gratefully received I can assure you.
Mrs. Charles B. Coble Burlington, North Carolina
World Airways Teacher is written and edited for teachers. We’d like to supply copies for students, and it is always hard to decline, but we just can’t print enough.
Gentlemen:
I wish to acknowledge with thanks the receipt of material for use by Spanish classes sent to Bennett High School.
The Spanish teachers will make good use of it in their classes and in the meetings of the Spanish Clubs. The maps are excellent and will find a place on the bulletin board as we study these countries. Students of Spanish in New York State must be well informed on the geography, culture and products of all Spanish-speaking countries.
I have a private showing of the strip slides and found them lovely. We shall use them next fall when the Spanish Club resumes meetings. Thank you too for the helpful and interesting brochures.
Pan American
Won id Airwaye Teacher	11
LETS FLY TO EUROPE
Pan American world Airways
(~^Jne JUifsfcm of fhe'^T/ijirHj Clippers

A Complete Classroom Project.....Adaptable For All Grades
Sponsored by
TEACHING UNIT—This is a reproduction of the cover of a new teaching unit on Europe which will be sent without charge upon request to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
See description on page 2.
I shall appreciate receiving other material of this type when it is availale.
Ellen F. Adair Buffalo, New York
Mrs. Adair refers to PAA Unit ATo. 3, ,(The Other Americas” described on page 2 of this issue.
This visual unit, consisting of product maps in color, pamphlets and a slide film is available without charge to visual aid centers for circulation to classrooms.
Dear Sir:
Your April news sheet, World Airways Teacher, was very interesting to my Intermediate Department, both children and teachers. It was an invaluable aid in helping us plan a unit of study on the Americas to the south.
Your unit, number three, on Pan American, was used extensively in our study. The film strip was loaned to the audiovisual aids class of the college, who in turn had a special showing for my classes. The pictures were very beautiful and instructive.
For three years or more, I have been using
your materials at State College and find that they rank high in usability and variety of information. Our unit has been printed for the student teachers and if you would like to have a copy of it I shall'be glad to send it.
Then too, I am interested in your suggestions on organizing a travel group. Please send me your pamphlet, Organise an Air Travel Group. I am very interested in this phase of your service.
J.S.
Jonesboro, Arkansas
Dear Sir:
Just a short note of thanks for the very excellent materials you kindly sent for our workshop. I am looking forward to using them in our program.
Joseph A. Diblin
Lewisburg, Penna.
PAA educational materials were supplied this summer to several hundred workshops. If requests of this character are sent to us zvell in advance it is very helpful as it takes time to process them and forward the materials.