Pah America i v
September - October, 1948	World Airways Teacher	?
SANTIAGO — The Catholic University in Santiago is one of South America’s leading
educational institutions.
ing away. His game is indifference. One song makes him say: “When I lose interest I quit!” She mocks him: “Don’t be a coward! Come closer, man! Here you’re offered this w'orld and the next!”
He responds, teasingly, buys her a drink, shares her glass, putting his lips where hers have been, maliciously leading her on. Onlookers incite them with remarks and by singing, stamping and thumping on anything at hand. The dance ends when he finally catches her in an embrace.
“The words of the cueca carry the perfume of machined and pennyroyal,” writes Luis Durand in his Presencia de Chile. “There is in it the transparency of running waters, light, restless wTaters that go murmuring soft arpeggios as they slide over beds of golden sand. . . It took its delicate, airy grace from the copihue grove, the plaintive note in its music from the winds, and from the birds that dot the horizon in care-free flight, the fresh, melodic intonation of its songs.”
A popular cuenca reads: “Dicen que las heladas—mi vida secan los yuyos—Asi yo me estoy secando—La vida por l’amor tuyo.” (Dear life! they say it is the frosts that dry the yuyo—As for me, I’m drying up for the love of thee.)
A Charming Fable
Some of the Chilean fables are really beautiful, as, for instance, that called “La Tenquita.,” which is the name of a song-bird. La Tenquita, sallying forth in the winter to seek food for her little ones, burns one of her feet in the snow and says to the snow: “Why are you so wicked as to burn my foot? And the snow replies:
“The sun that melts me is wickeder.”
La Tenquita then turns towards the sun and asks it why it is so wicked as to melt the snow, and the sun replies:
“The cloud that hides me is wickeder.” And the Tenquita interrogates, one after the other, the cloud, which accuses the wind of blowing it along; the wind, which complains of the walls that obstruct it; the walls which accuses the mouse of gnawing holes in them; the mouse, which thinks that the cat that devours it is wickeder; the cat, which thinks that the dog that is always seeking a quarrel with it is worse; the dog, which thinks that the stick that beats it is wickeder; the stick, which says that the fire that burns it is wickeder; the fire, which replies “The water that extinguishes me is wickeder”; the water, which says that the ox that drinks it is wickeder; the ox, which declares that the knife that kills it is worse; the knife, which says that the man who made it is worse; and, finally, the man who replies :
“Ask the Creator who made me.” Tenquita then goes to see God and kneeling down before Him until her beak touches the ground, says to Him:
“Lord, why didst Thou create man, why did man make the knife, that kills the ox, that drinks the water, which extinguishes the fire, which burns the stick, that beats the dog, that chases the cat, that eats the mouse, that gnaws holes in the wall, that stops the wind, that drives the cloud along, that hides the sun, who melts the snow, that burns me?”
Tenquita weeps pitiably. And then the Good Lord says to her:
“Go thy way in peace, Tenquita, to look after thy little ones, who are very cold and very hungry.”
Tenquita, being a good Christian, obeys at once, and when she reaches her little nest she finds that her burnt foot has become well and sound.
This is in brief the fable told to Vicuna Cifuentes by an old peasant-woman and repeated by Agustin Edwards in his My Native Land.
A Taste of Rare Dishes
If you want to taste the national dish, few Chileans will give you one single name. “It is the casuela,” one may tell you smacking his lips and mentally enjoying that delicious stew with chicken and corn, celery, carrots, string- beans and rice. “It is the empanada,” another will insist with authority. How could any one dispute the delicacy of this sort of meat or chicken pie? “It is the humitas,” a third will proclaim. An involved explanation of the recipe is not enough. You have to taste the humitas to decide for yourself. The basic ingredient is sweet corn ground into a dough, wrapped in the corn husk and boiled till it is done. However, the making of them is not as simple as it looks.
You as a tourist do not have to- submit to this diet. It might be good to try these dishes though as a pleasant experience. However you can have in Chile the best of everything: Lobster from Robinson Crusoe’s isle, tender oysters and small lobsters of a delicacy unequaled, crab and shrimp; you can try Chile’s special conger eel, congrio, and dozens of other fish. Buenos Aires advertises Chile’s seafood as the rarest treat, and much of the sea food— specifically lobsters—is flown over the
Andes to Argentina. Fowl and meat are good, but fish and shellfish superlative. And served with just the right white wine— dry and smooth and nutty—followed by Chile’s savory vegetables dressed with cheese or excellent sauce, meat with salad and red wine, sugary dessert or fresh and juicy fruit—-every Chilean meal is a banquet and you are the one who can have it. It is all yours for the asking.
The Adios
By this time you may have seen a lot of Chile and heard a lot about it. Subconsciously you quote Gabriela Mistral’s idea of the country: “Something like the synthesis of the planet is realized in the geography of Chile. It begins with the desert ... a sterility which has no use for man; it is humanized in the valleys of the transition zone; makes a complete home for itself in the agricultural region; takes on a heroic forest beauty at the continent’s end as though to finish worthily ; and it finally crumbles away, offering equally life and death in a sea which vacillates between its liquid quality and the Buddhic nature of eternal ice. . .”
You also remember Ercilla’s Auracana and repeat the lines which every Chilean boy learns in school:
Chile, fertile province, famous In the vast Antarctic region Known to far flung mighty nations For her queenly grace and courage,
Has produced a race so noble, Dauntless, bellicous, and haughty,
That by king it ne’er was humbled Nor to foreign sway submitted.
Your plane takes off east bound and climbs over a stretch of saw-toothed peaks that pierce holes in the clouds. Down below, between slopes you glimpse flashing lakes, roofs of ski lodges and tiny towns wrapped in mist. And with affection — Adios.