September - October, 1948
Pah Amer/cah
World A/rmvs Teacher
3
AN AIR VIEW OF CHILE TODAY
by Enrique Portes
The silvery wings of your Pan American-Grace airplane speed you down the coast of Chile. At times your plane rises to majestic heights, flying under the rim of the great chain of the Andes. You see the multicolor desert beneath, the foam of sea rocks to the west, the gigantic shoulders of snow pushing up to the east.
A smiling Chilean traveler noticing your admiration will remark with a friendly gesture: “These contrasts make Chile a tourist’s paradise. You see, you can bathe in the Pacific in the morning and go skiing on broad, snow slopes after lunch; you can eat chirimoyas for breakfast and cool your luncheon ale in a crack in a glacier. In this country a tourist can choose the temperature and climate he desires.”
You smile back in appreciation. You have read many things about Chile and you know that the land is narrow, that there are regions in which it suffices to climb a mountain to be able to encompass it all with the naked eye, from cordillera to ocean, that in the maps, Chile appears like a long yellow or green fringe bordering Argentina on the west. In your mind scores of names of cities, valleys, writers, poets, appear in confusion. Ahead lie Valparaiso, Santiago, the Valley of Elqui so poetically described by Gabriela Mistral, the 1945 Nobel Prize Winner. Meanwhile your Pan American plane is flying at great altitude. Your fellow-passenger interrupts you again.
Christ of the Andes
“Over that peak,” he says, “was erected the Christ of the Andes. It is a statue twenty-six feet high, and stands on a tall granite column surrounded by a globe on which a map of the world is outlined. Do you know why it was set up there?
Of course, you know why, but you gracefully allow the Chilean to say it again. And he does it with pride and emotion. The peoples of Chile and Argentina are of the same family, he goes on, yet in 1902, the two governments were making preparations for war over a boundary dispute. But the women and the clergy of the two Republics exerted their influence and persuaded the authorities to settle the question by arbitration. The money thus saved was used for roads and harbors, and part of it built the trans-Andean railroad that connects Santiago with Buenos Aires. The women of the two countries also raised money for a colossal statue of Jesus Christ, made of bronze obtained by melting down old cannon taken from Spain in the War of Independence. This statute was set up at the highest accessible point on the disputed boundary, and was unveiled amid great rejoicing.
You wish to ask the Chilean passenger something about the present: politics, social advances, labor legislation and economic recovery. You have to ask about those things later because the story of the Christ of the Andes is not over. Your fellow-passenger continues, suggesting with a smile that it is very short.
“The great statue,” he goes on, “stands near the old trail leading over the mountain
from Chile to Argentina, a trail now rarely used since a tunnel has been built through the mountain. That does not matter. What we remember today are the words written on a tablet at the base of the statue.” There is a pause, then he repeats in Spanish the words on the tablet. In English, those words are: “Sooner shall these mountains crumble into dust than Argentines and Chileans break the peace to which they have pledged themselves at the feet of Christ the Redeemer.”
Suddenly you remember a post script to the story. It had appeared in several New York papers. Why Christ was facing Argentina with one arm stretched out? Chileans at one time didn’t seem to like it. They wanted the Redeemer to look at them. A witty journalist gave a satisfactory explanation and the Chilean, smiling, accepted the explanation. “Chileans were God-fearing people; they did not have to be watched.”
By this time your silvery plane is over the Chilean pampa: the land of nitrate and copper. You have surveyed a geographical wonder of America: the Atacama desert with its naked, angular mountains and small, dry desolate valleys. You begin to feel impatient and rather happy.
As the afternoon advances the landscape has become strange and magical: small dark
valleys with bright rivers, little hamlets which at ten thousand feet seem as unreal as illusion. At last you sight Vallenar, La Serena, Ovalle, Illapel, and the afternoon is nearly at an end, when behind a thick wall of golden hills, appears the wooded valley of the Mapocho river. There is Santiago! The plane describes a complete circle in the setting sunlight and swoops down onto the even turf of Los Cerrillos, 1800 feet above sea level. The Capital of Chile is yours. You are welcome to the Republic.
Santiago
Santiago is easy to recognize because it centers on the hill of Santa Lucia which rises between the Mapocho and the Alameda. Towards the east the peaks of the main Cordillera of the Andes begin to rise abruptly. Among these is Aconcagua, the highest mountain in the western hemisphere, with an altitude of 22,834 feet.
While Santiago has all the features of a modern city, it still retains much of its original charm. The streets intersect at right angle to each other. The most important of these run into the Plaza de Armas with its Cathedral, the palace of the Metropolitan Archbishop of Santiago, the Portal Fernandez Concha, and the Portal MacClure whose lower stories are full retail shops. A block away is the building of the National
SAN CRISTOBAL HILL — Santiago centers on the hill of Santa Lucia, which was the vantage point of the camera which took this picture, looking across the valley to San Cristobal Hill.