Pam American
September - October, 1948	WORLD AiRWAVS TEACHER
S
gories, has been developed on an extensive scale, and the Chilean Arturo Godoy was expert enough to fight 15 rounds with Joe Louis on one occasion and 6 rounds on another.
Many Chileans are expert horsemen, and jumping contests are staged in all parts of the Republic with Army officers and civilians competing. Those who have been at the International Horse Show in New York may remember Major Eduardo Yanez who won the military jumping contests on two different occasions.
Skiing is another popular sport and one which in recent years has attracted many Americans some of whom have flown to Chile via PAA and Pan American-Grace Airways. The Farellones skiing grounds are near Santiago, and parties of young people often gather at 5 o’clock in the morning to go there by truck with skiis, poles and extra clothing in huge bundles. It takes about one hour and a half to get there. Portillos is another favored skiing spot, but is further away and you have to plan your trip.
Eugene Du Bois, Manager of the United States Ski Team that went to participate in a tournament in Chile in 1937, said that in his opinion, that part of the Andean Cordillera rising at the back door of Santiago contains some of the finest skiing canchas on earth. He added that Chile will some day produce the best skiers in the world.
Many ski schools and clubs have been formed. Farellones, Rio Blanco, Lo Valdes and Lagunillas are a few of the popular ski centers located only a few hours by train from Santiago. Farellones has several colorful huts, lodges and private homes. Portillo has a modern winter hotel. There are also some ski fields in the South, about twenty-four hours from Santiago, which many claim to be magnificent. Long mountain stretches of glistening snow await the skier in Chile. Skiing in Chile begins in July.
Chilean Industry
Chile is more than twice the size of Italy, nearly six times the size of England, with more natural resources than either. Among the countries of South America, Chile has one of the most advanced economic organizations. In foreign trade and railway mileage, it stands high among its neighbors. It has developed its lumbering and woodworking industries to a considerable degree.
Chile now supplies nearly all its own tiles, bricks, porcelain, chinaware, glassware. The new Yungay crystal ware finds favor abroad. More than a million dollars were invested recently in a drug corporation which exports to the entire continent.
Many millions have been invested to promote a domestic textile industry—wool, rayon, cotton, linen—which is beginning to bear fruit. The new Said mill in Quillota supplies 50 million lbs. of rayon yarn to more than 120 mills. Reforestation has been pushed to the extent that 50 million trees have been set out.
A cellulose plant near Valdivia proposes to process the turpentine tree. Plastic and paper factories have been built. A beet-sugar industry has begun. Production of flax and linen has been tripled. The country has been
made self-sufficient in vegetable oils and establishments to process them. Fruit and dairy cooperatives have been helped on a great scale.
Chile supplies two-thirds of all the minerals and metals that come from South America. It possesses a natural monopoly of salpetre. Iodine is a by-product of salpêtre and the country supplies 90% of the world’s production. Chile is also the second largest producer of copper, only the U.S. producing more.
Though the copper and nitrate industries are primarily extractive, much of the personnel is occupied with the métallurgie phases. One half of the 25,000 workers in the copper industry are engaged in the crushing, concentrating, electrolytic, and smelting plants that prepare the product for the market as blister copper or electrolytic copper bars. The three principal copper enterprises are numbered among the largest in the world.
Several of the chemical raw materials with which Chile is endowed are connected with the nitrate industry. The country produces about 8 per cent of the world’s supply of nitrogen.
In the field of finished chemical products, most of the domestic requirements for matches, paint, laundry soap, and pharmaceutical and toilet preparations are prepared locally. The principal match factory, the
Compañía Chilena de Fósforos, has its chief factory in Talca. Local wood, sulphur, and glass are used, but most other materials are imported. In 1940 this company obtained a contract to supply the Peruvian match monopoly.
The textile industries comprise the largest industrial group in Chile after foodstuffs. They employ about 18,000 manual workers and some 2,000 salaried employees (not including more than 12,000 employed in clothing establishments). The Chilean climate permits the wearing of woolen clothing throughout the year, and the garb of the country folk and laborers is generally of wool.
Chile has good sheep-raising lands, so it is small wonder that the manufacture of woolen articles was the first branch of the textiles industries to be established and is today the largest in number of workers and value of products. There are several woolen mills in the southern provinces, three at Concepcion and four at Tomé. There are several spinning mills at Santiago and a cloth and yarn mill at Viña del Mar.
Chile is one of the two countries (Mexico is the other) in Latin America that produce newsprint and one of the two that make pulp on a commercial scale. The paper plant at Puente Alto, about 15 miles from Santiago, is not only the leader in its field but
ANDES—Chile offers the winter sportsmen some of the best ski slopes in the world. U. S. Citizens frequently join the Chileans on such magnificent mountain sides as this one.