6
also one of the notable industrial enterprises of Chile.
The company has its own electric plant, owns timber lands, and besides mechanical pulp produces some cellulose from wheat. Modern houses, two polyclinics with free services, a sports stadium and a swimming pool are provided for its employees.
Ceramics is another field in which Chile is relatively self-sufficient. The country has what is believed to be the largest pottery factory in South America, the Fabrica National de Loza, en Penco.
The glass industry, too, has grown in recent years. The Cristalerias de Chila, S.A. produces 85% of the glassware, and also large quantities of bottles, ampules, light bulbs and other glass articles.
This outline, of course, does not pretend to embrace every phase of Chile industrial development. Though Chileans know they will never compete with a big industrial nation like the U.S., they hope to develop, like Switzerland, unique skills in tune with their resources and be able to manufacture more of the goods the country requires.
Education at a Glance
Chile, with her law of 1813, was the first country in Spanish America to establish national public education. And as soon as the Republic was organized, it founded the first normal school. Ever since, Chileans are proud of having a well-organized teaching profession. Writers and poets boast of being teachers. Gabriela Mistral the poetess and Nobel Prize Winner never fads to call herself a teacher.
At a glance we might say that education is divided into elementary school, and secondary school or liceo. The elementary school takes six years. The curriculum includes Spanish, history, geography, science, mathematics, physical education, music, manual training, and art, with sewing and home economics for girls.
The secondary school requires six years more, making a total of twelve. In this liceo or institute the student faces six years of hard work with no organized sports, no campus life, a little physical education. Whether the goal is the university or a technical school or marriage (in the case of a girl), the course is the same. Let us see what a. student must take:
Two years of philosophy, which includes logic, a history of philosophy, psychology, methods of science and ethics. Six years of two foreign languages. Latin and Greek are studied only as the basis of the Spanish language. One year of political economy and civics. Three years each of chemistry, physics, biology, algebra, arithmetic, and geometry. History and geography are taught together for six years. Spanish, music and art run all through the course. As every student takes everything, this results in thirty to thirty-six hours of classes weekly, from half past eight to twelve, from half past two to five.
At the end of the liceo the student takes exhaustive examinations, both written and oral. Those who fail are given a second chance three months later. Their last, too. Those who pass are bachilleres. Is this degree equivalent to our bachelor’s degree? It might be compared with a certificate from a junior college. Chileans who have
Pa/v Amfrícaiv
Would Airways Teacher
not been in an American College will disagree. One thing these two degrees have in common: a bachiller may be admitted into a Chilean University to1 study law, medicine, engineering. A U.S. bachelor of arts or science may also be admitted to study law, medicine or engineering.
The universities of Chile and of all the American Republics for that matter are not institutions with a campus, athletic fields, a central library, dormitories, fraternity houses, etc. They are divided into faculties or professional schools. Chile has today four universities: the University of Chile founded in 1842 by a decree signed by President Manuel Bulnes, the Catholic University of Chile founded in 1888, and the University of Concepcion founded in 1915. In addition there is the private and endowed University of Santa Maria in Valparaiso, founded in 1926.
The University of Chile was named first the “house of learning” to differentiate it from the anachronic colonial institution called San Felipe. Andres Bello, the great Venezuelan scholar, was appointed the first President of the Institution.
The Chilean university student is, on the whole, serious in dress and outlook, but he is displaying an ever increasing interest in sports and athletics. To witness the football (soccer) matches held between the teams of the University of Chile and her rival, the Catholic University of Santiago, with all the accompanying cheers, songs, bands and field parades, would prove a, season’s delight to any U.S. collegiate audience.
The University of Santa Maria at Valparaiso marks a first step toward a new education for Chile—education which trains men to work in an industrialized world, to make a living.
Chile is making great advances in the training of her future citizens. Chilean teachers are famous in South America. They have been contracted .by other Latin American governments to organize the public school systems. Venezuela and Mexico haye engaged Chilean teachers more than one occasion.
Chile has four schools for nurses, 106 hospitals, and 47 rural health centers; all under the direction of the Ministry of Public Health.
The Escuela de Servicio Social which was established in 1925 was the first social service school in Latin America. The school has grown tremendously. The matriculates must have a bachelors degree, good health and character, and the knowledge of one foreign language. They are finally chosen for previous experience and training by mental tests, and for seriousness and aptitude. The studies comprise biology, psychology, anatomy, mental hygiene, etc. They study for three years but the degree of Public Health Nurse requires an extra year’s training in such subjects as child care, anti-tuberculosis work, prophylaxis, psychiatry, social service, administration and the use of statistics.
Today the Republic is proud of its educational progress. Illiteracy has been reduced to 24 per cent which compares very favorably with any other republic of the hemisphere. For more than a century Chile has welcomed with open arms the best minds
September - October, 1948
of the continent. After Andres Bello came Faustino Sarmiento, an Argentine who later became President of his own country, Alberdi, Mitre, Hostos, Rubén Dario and a score of other men of letters. Students from the entire continent fill Chilean universities. Not long ago the total enrollment of the University founded by Bulnes reached the 6,000 mark of which 1,800 were women and 600 foreigners. This is a record for Spanish America.
Art Flourishes
There seems to be a tremendous art revival in Chile as if it were trying to make up for its many centuries of comparative barrenness in the field. Though the National Art Academy was founded in 1849”, painting never reached a high level. It was a German, Juan Mauricio Rugendas, who did something of importance before that time. His “Battle oí Maipú” can be seen in the Museum of History, though other paintings of his have more vigor and charm. There are his huasos, rodeos, convoy wagons, campfires, riding herd, etc.
Today few cities have so many art exhibits so steadily going on as Santiago. They can be seen in the salons of the Bank of Chile, the National Museum of Fine Arts, in university halls, the Ministry of Education, in the Alhambra Palace, in the Galerie du Parc and elsewhere. Every year there is a big national prize contest in the Summer Salon at the Viña del Mar coast resort.
The government also offers an annual art prize of 100,000 pesos. Medals are awarded by the National Salon and prizes established by wealthy businessmen. Prize winners have been Pablo Burchard, an impressionistic landscapist; Israel Roa, impressionistic, Federico Zabala, Alfonso Vila, Hortensia Oehrens and Ana Correa. Chilean painters concern themselves much with the wild southern coast, the broken adobe streets, the ragged rotos of the nitrate mines, the fundos, the life of huasos or Chilean cowboys.
Fresco painting promises to become a strong side of Chilean art. The names of Hermosillo Alvarez, Oswald Reyes, Luis Vargas Rosas and Laureano Guevara can be grouped in this field.
Sculpturing has a deeper tradition. Parks and boulevards are dotted with the monuments of important sculptors, namely, Nicanor Plaza, Virginio Arias and others. On the hill of Santa Lucia in Santiago rises the statue of the Indian Caupolicán, by Plaza. In New York Central Park there is a statue labeled “The Last of the Mohicans.” One is struck by. the resemblance to the Caupolican statue in Santiago.
Doing la Cueca
The cueca is the typical Chilean dance. It is danced everywhere, wherever there can be found a guitar, a couple of drinks, a guaso and a young country girl. The cueca has little form; its theme is a meeting which leads to flirtation and moves quickly through courtship to a conquest and surrender. It is always a duet, though several couples may be on the floor together. When it is staged the man appears in “guaso” attire, the girl in long full calico skirt. A handkerchief for each is a requisite. In the beginning the girl lures the man, lifting her skirt just a bit to show her foot, advancing and whirl-