Pan American
September - October, 1948	WOHID AfRMYS TEACHER
Sind, West Punjab and East Bengal can feed deficit areas of the Northwest Frontier Province and Baluchistan.
One of the greatest problems faced by the Government is of a financial nature. When they fled to India, Hindu businessmen took with them all gold bullion, jewels and other liquid assets they could carry. Present estimates seem to indicate an almost certain expenditure of 800 million rupees during this year in contrast to an expected income of 450 million rupees.
Of Pakistan’s cash crops, jute is by far the most important. Sometimes called the golden fiber of Bengal, it is grown on one and a half million acres in Eastern Pakistan. Formerly British India had a virtual world monopoly in jute and in 1947-48 Pakistan is expected to produce 73% of the jute grown in Indo-Pakistan or seven and a half million 400-pound bales. This represents 75% of total world production making Pakistan the largest single producer of jute fiber. Next in importance to jute is cotton which is grown mainly in Western Pakistan. The area under cotton comprises three million acres and the total annual output is about one and a half million bales as compared to the entire sub-continent’s two and a half million bales. At present nearly 100,000 bales goes to the United States. In addition Pakistan accounts for one-third of the total tobacco production of both Dominions as well as substantial quantities of tea, sugar cane and oil seeds which are exported abroad and capable of further production increases.
Trade With The World
Figures of trade of individual states of British India indicate that Pakistan’s chief exports outside of the sub-continent will be jute, cotton, tea, tobacco, carpet and carpet wool, skins, goat hair, bristles and other animal products. Imports may be expected to consist largely of industrial products.
Climate is an important factor in the country’s ability to buy from the outside world. The nation’s general prosperity is influenced by the Southwest Monsoon which occurs during the months of July, August and September and determines whether Pakistan will have a good harvest of Au-gust-September jute, April-May wheat and September-November cotton — the three principal money crops. An irregular or poor monsoon may not only cause severe distress in affected districts, but also, by reducing purchasing power bring about bad business conditions throughout the country and a falling off of imports. A good monsoon vitalizes every branch of business and tends to strengthen imports. Commercial travelers will often find it advantageous to travel in Pakistan toward the end of the monsoon when buyers are in a more definite frame of mind as regards their requirements.
Problems To Be Solved
As a producing country Pakistan must quickly industrialize to achieve self-sufficiency or else must establish a cordial interdependence with a processing nation. Due to the lack of native capital and unstable social conditions which discourage foreign investment, interdependence with a processing nation seems to be mandatory. Outside of a few scattered woolen, cement, sugar
and cotton mills, cloth and most other manufactured goods must be imported. There are no big iron and steel centers, only thirty-four railroad repair shops, no match factories or paper mills. Although 85% of the sub-continent’s raw jute is raised in Pakistan, the jute mills are in Indian Calcutta. There are only sixteen cotton mills compared to India’s eight hundred and fifty-seven. Due to extensive Hindu migration there is also a complete lack of skilled technicians and those having a “know-how” of production to put into effect the new government’s plans for the development of key industries.
Adequate deposits of coal are lacking and oil and iron reserves are largely undeveloped. However, geological surveys, still to be completed, do show the existence of rich deposits of oil, sulphur, lime, salt, chromite, asbestos, antimony, steatite, gypsum and small quantities of gold. The forests are rich in pine, spruce, teak, and sandalwood while substantial quantities of bamboos and sabu grass can be useful in the establishment of a paper industry. Limitless water power also will prove an invaluable asset in the development of electricity needed for industrial development.
In all 370,000 square miles of Pakistan there are only 7,260 miles of railroad and 9,575 miles of paved roads in addition to 53,000 miles of dirt roads and trails. The lack of adequate coal resources hampers railroad activity and over-crowded trains often have little room for transporting foodstuffs or cotton.
Transportation Assets
The country is a land of rivers and almost every one big or small is bridged to facilitate cross-country movement however. Originating in the snow-covered Himalayas which skirt the country in the north, the rivers flow over the rich and fertile plains of
Western and Eastern Pakistan before emptying into the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. The rivers in Western Pakistan flow gently over the plains, parallel to and equidistant from each other until they ultimately join the mighty Indus on its 2,000 mile long journey to the Arabian Sea. These peculiar features have helped the development of an efficient system of canal irrigation, second only to the United States. The oldest canal system in the world, it brings millions of acres of land under plough. The double-tiered railroad suspension bridge over the Indus at Sukkur is an outstanding feat of engineering. In Eastern Pakistan, though the main towns are connected by roads and railway, the network of internal waterways provides one of the most useful and cheapest systems of transport and the bulk of Pakistan’s jute is carried to port on steamers plying these rivers.
Modern Travel In a New Land
It can safely be stated that more Americans are familiar with Karachi, the capital and only modern port of the country, as seen from the air than by sea. During the war the city was one of the most important military air junctions in the world and boasts the biggest airport in Asia. At present clippers leaving New York at five o’clock on a Saturday afternoon with stops at London; Brussels; Istanbul, Turkey; and Damascus, Syria; arrive at the Karachi Airport at ten minutes after eight on Monday night. By leaving San Francisco at ten thirty on Friday night and stopping at Honolulu; Guam; Tokyo; Shanghai; Bangkok, Siam; and Calcutta and Delhi in India they arrive in Karachi at eleven-thirty on Wednesday evening.
Service on these two routes by Pan American World Airways marked the first United States-flag airline round-the-world-service from American coastal points. To
KARACHI — Throughout Pakistan and India there are monuments and memorials to Queen Victoria. At Karachi the memorial is in the form of a community center (the building in background) located in Victoria Square.