PAKISTAN
by Lou A. Phillips
The land known as Pakistan does not appear in any 1946 Atlas. In fact two years ago its Governor-General, Mohammed Ali Jinnah,* could not have defined the territorial boundaries of the country he now directs. Pakistan’s constitutional existence began on August 15, 1947 and there has never been a nation that has had to face so many full grown problems during the first years of its life.
Pakistan is unique in that it is divided into two blocks of land separated by 700 miles of the territory of the Union of India. The section in northwest India is made up of the western part of the former province, Punjab, the Northwest Frontier Province, Sind, Baluchistan and a number of princely states in the area. The nation’s name is fabricated from these territories—P for Punjab—A for Afghan, the name usually given to the tribes of the Northwest Frontier—K for Kashmir (a predominantly Moslem state)—and the rest for Baluchistan. The eastern region includes East Bengal, one large district of Assam and any princely states in that region that may join. Kashmir has become a matter of dispute, but Pakistan officials are confident it will become a part of the new country “when the will of the people comes into effect.” Pakistan is a Moslem state and India is Hindu. However, there are Hindus in Pakistan and Moslems in India, and the Moslem state of Hyderabad for the time being, and pending final settlement, is under the control of India following a “five day war” in September.
Two Zones
These two zones of Pakistan comprise an area which is almost equal to the total areas of France, Belgium and the Netherlands put together. Their seventy million people make it one of the most populous nations in the world. Each province has its own dialect but the basic language is Urdu, except in East Pakistan, where it is Bengali. A combination of different languages of Central Asia and India, Urdu has an Arabic script and draws freely from Persian and Turkish vocabularies.
In August 1947 the British partitioned their great Indian Empire into two independent and sovereign Dominions—Pakistan and India. Although Moslem Pakistan has only 12% of the population and 5% of the industry of Hindu India, that inferiority is compensated in part by its status in the international society of Moslem States (of which it is the largest) stretching from Constantinople to Delhi and from the
* On Sept. 11, Mohammed Ali Jinnah died, at the age of 71. The “Father of Pakistan” was succeeded as Governor General by Sir Khwaja Nazimuddin, pro-
AFGHANISTAN
CHINA
THE DOMINIONS OF INDIA AND PAKISTAN
Himalaya Mountains to the Arabian Sea. Furthermore, the fact that Pakistan is situated where the Anglo-American orbit and the Soviet Empire touch in Central Asia
vincisi Premier of East Bengal.
CHSOML
Air Age Capital
Karachi, the capital city of Pakistan, is a perfect example of the growth and development that can be brought by air transportation.
Although a seaport for two and a half centuries, and increasingly inir portant to commerce since the beginning of the century (its-population almost doubled between 1901 and 1941) it was not until the city became a major air junction for military air transport during the war that it achieved real world-wide prominence. It has the largest airport in Asia, and continues to be a leading world air terminal in peace time. PAA’s Flying Clippers from Europe make their first call in the Pakistan-India peninsula at Karachi, as do other world airliners flying from Europe to the Orient, including those of British Overseas, Air France and KLM.
ßOö4vL l Pdc
gives it a strategic importance to the United States that cannot be measured in terms of size or economic resources.
The Moslems came to India as early as 1000 A.D. and by 1300 were well established at Delhi first as traders and then as conquerors. One by one Hindu princes fell before a Succession of Mohammedan dynasties. It was a Mohammedan Emperor who built the Taj Mahal, located in what is now Indian Agra, and recognized to be one of the most splendid monuments of oriental architecture in the world. Built of white marble this mausoleum is 186 feet square and stands in the center of a court 313 feet square. Surrounding the structure in the center is a great dome 210 feet high with a diameter of 58 feet. There is a smaller dome on each of the four corners of the building. The exterior is exquisitely carved with arabesques and inscriptions and inlaid with semi-precious stones.
From the time of the initial Moslem invasion the Hindu caste system rendered an amalgamation of Moslems into the general population impossible. They remained a distinct people proud of their political ascendency and what they considered their (Continued on page 8)