Pm American
World	Airways Teacher	September - October, 1948
_______
S#***'1 Par American	* 7^ «•
® World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
CREDIT FOR TRAVEL
Many teachers and students who traveled during their summer vacations this year accumulated semester hours of credit toward degrees, or credit toward certification by state departments of education, or credit on professional growth programs on salary schedules of city school systems.
Thirty-one colleges and universities reported to the Educational Research Service of the National Educational Association that they offer credit for travel. This was in reply to a questionnaire distributed to 261 accredited institutions.
Among state departments of education, 41 states, Alaska and the Canal Zone reported to NEA that they award credit for educative travel.
Of 37 school systems in cities over 30,000 population receiving questionnaires from the NEA, 23 reported that they allow credit for travel for professional growth requirements, and the NEA found by examining salary schedules for 1947-48 that at least eleven other school systems give credit for travel.
Conditions which must be met in order to qualify for credit are summarized in Circular No. 10, 1947 of the Educational Research Service, National Education Association. These vary considerably and the prospective traveler should obtain specific information before traveling. Otherwise credit may not be forthcoming because of failure to meet specific requirements.
In general it may be said that the requirements are designed to make certain that the travel will produce real educational benefits, will make the teacher more effective in the classroom, and, in the case of university credit for students who do not intend to teach that the travel will broaden their knowledge and experience in their chosen fields of geology, sociology, geography, etc.
World Airways Teacher can’t help pointing out that travel abroad by air offers an unparalleled opportunity to compress some real education into the space of a vacation trip of two weeks to two months.
To point the whole thing up, we’d like to suggest that teachers and students (1) avail themselves of opportunities to receive credit for their travel when such opportunities exist for them and (2) where the opportunities are lacking, to ask authorities to study what others have done and give thought to following suit.
“The Other Americas”
P.A.A. Educational Unit No. 3, “The Other Americas” is available now for deposit in visual education centers.
This unit was announced in the June issue of World Airways Teacher, and several thousand sets were distributed during the summer. The supply probably will be exhausted in another three months, and units now on hand will be sent out on a “first come, first served” basis.
Included in the unit are: 1. Twelve color pictograph economic maps; 2. Booklet: “The Wealth of the Other Americas”—containing illustrations and current economic information ; 3. Booklets of reprinted material from the “Classroom Clipper”; 4. Reprint of “How to Win Friends and Influence People in South America”; 5. One 108-frame, three part, educational slide film on Central America and Caribbean Area; 6. Manual, Teacher’s Guide and Bibliography.
In order to achieve maximum use, the Educational Service of PAA distributes Unit No. 3 only to Visual Education Departments for circulation by such departments to individual teachers. If your school system does not yet have such a center, copies of the unit will be supplied to' your social studies or geography department.
For the present, and as long as the supply lasts, PAA will supply as many sets of Unit No. 3 as your visual aids center can circulate. There is no charge, but get in your request early.
Address Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, New York.
Engine Analyzers
Flying Clippers of the Constellation type flying across the Atlantic now are equipped with electronic trouble shooters which can tell in advance if a spark plug is going to give trouble and give warning of many other possible mechanical difficulties.
Index Is Ready
An index covering the four volumes of Pan American World Airways Teacher is ready for distribution and will be sent without charge to any reader requesting it. A post card will do.
Libraries will receive the index with this issue and thus will be saved the trouble of sending for it, unless extra copies are desired.
These engine analyzers save much maintenance time by pin-pointing the work which has to be done. The Flight Engineer, utilizing the engine analyzer en route, disembarks with a specific list of parts requiring service. Because the analyzer shows exactly which valve, spark plug, or magneto is below performance, ground crewmen can service the component directly without spending time to search through the entire engine.
“Let’s Fly to Europe”
A study unit covering a Flying Clipper trip to Europe has been developed jointly by the staff of the magazine The Grade Teacher and the Educational Service of Pan American World Airways as a feature of the October issue of the magazine.
After its initial appearance in The Grade Teacher the unit will be available without charge upon request to the Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, New York.
This unit, adaptable to all grades, will provide up-to-date material for use in geography and social studies instruction. Requests received by PAA will be serviced as soon as the reprints come from the press, which will be some time in October. (See illustration on page 11.)
Bermuda Air Tours
Again in 1949 Pan American World Airways will make arrangements for groups from schools and colleges to travel to Bermuda during Easter and spring vacations.
Last spring groups from many institutions made the trip, and some of these students later saw their pictures in the April 26 issue of Life Magazine which featured one boy and girl on the cover.
Although no one can assure the 1949 Bermuda visitors that they will be photographed for a national magazine, PAA does offer an inducement to students who organize groups on their own campuses in the form of free transportation for the tour organizer, provided ten or more travel at the regular rate. For organizing and conducting a group tour of five to nine the organizer may travel at half the regular rate.
In Bermuda arrangements will be made for special activities especially planned the students. Last year these included Rugby matches, picnics, dances, sightsee and a beach party sponsored by PAA and the Elbow Beach Surf Club.
Any Pan American World Airways ticket office can supply details.
G.G.
t
<