Paw America v
4	World Airways Teacher
VALPARAISO — In this city built on hills cable cars like the one in the photo are the transportation to some residential districts.
Congress. The Barrio Civico is the government center of Santiago with many buildings which house the various Ministries and the Central Bank. Not far are the Hotel Carrera, the office of newspaper La Nacion, and the Palacio de la Moneda. The latter is today the official residence of the President of the Republic. Among other outstanding buildings are the Opera House, the University of Chile, the Catholic University, the Military Academy and the National Library.
You might visit the various parks: the Parque Cousino, the Parque Forestal and the Quinta Normal. In Cousino Park are held every year (September 18th) great military parades celebrating the country’s Independence Day. In Forestal Park you might visit the Museum of Fine Arts which houses a fine collection of masterpieces by Guido Reni, Van Dyke, Rivera, Murillo, Caravaggio, Rubens and Chilean artists as well.
If New York has its Fifth Avenue, Santiago has its Avenida de Bernardo O’Higgins. It is a great boulevard flanked by some of the finest residences and modern business houses. The Avenida O’Higgins displays monuments dedicated to the country’s great men. It has been called Chile’s “Hall of Fame.”
In the evening the city disappears in the mist and Santa Lucia has wondrous tales to
tell to those who have time to sit on one of its benches, whether alone or not. The roar of the city dies down and becomes a mute growl, as from a sleeping animal, and lights are lit one after another. Long rows of arc lights glow along the Alameda, intersected by the lamps of the side streets and dotted with the strident lilac, red, blue and golden neon signs of the theatres and cinemas. Santa Lucia hill was a gift of Vicuña Mac-Kenna, one of Santiago’s great benefactors, and Chile’s celebrated historian.
This is Santiago in a nutshell though you have to meet the people in order to say that you know the Capital of Chile.
Valparaiso — Valley of Paradise
Valparaiso at night is like a beautiful necklace of precious stones. The port forms an amphitheatre of hills which border a narrow strip of level land around the bay. Below are the commercial section, the squares, the government offices, the maritime section, the wealthy residential part (Pedro Mont-Almendral), and finally, a larger extension, the slum area of El Baron, named after Ambrosio O’Higgins, father of Chile’s national hero.
Santiago and Valparaiso—you can’t compare the two cities. Santiago is Spanish-Chilean to its fingertips, proud of its past and charming. Valparaiso is international, smart and enterprising, proud of its future. A massive, colorful architecture looks down
September - October, 1948
over the harbor filled with schooners, liners, tramps, and powerful warships.
You wander around the city and discover strange and colorful street names. You meet up with Pythagoras Street as often as with Owl Street. Aquiles Reed, a fireman, might alternate with Jean Jacques Rousseau, and Dona Juana Rosa with Rigoletto. There is a street named Pierre Loti and another Pelayo, Laplace, Leucoton, Colo-Colo. You may not identify some of these names but the Valparaisoan will.
One day you may decide to see Vina del Mar, North of Valparaiso. It stretches along the curve of the bay and lets the monotonous swell of the Pacific reach out its arms to it on the warm, white sand. Its name means vineyard. It is the playground of Chile, with luxury hotels, bathing beaches, souvenir shops and a Casino. Joaquin Edwards Bello in his novel Valparaiso, describes Vina del Mar as “the soul of summering, and straw hats are seen from January to January. The women are
slim, active and audacious......The men
are elegant, given to sports coats, piqué waistcoats, and Sandow’s gymnasium.” These fashion notes date Seiior Edwards Bello’s book, but the rest of it is applicable today.
Aviation in Chile
Chile is well served by air. One of the highest routes in the world is that flown regularly by Pan American-Grace Airways between Chile and Argentina. From New York to Santiago and Valparaiso regular service is maintained, including the PAA route from Aliami to the Canal Zone and Pan American Grace on to Chile, making it possible for a traveler to arrive at his destination the day following his departure whether it be south or north bound. The fare from New York to Santiago, via domestic air line, PAA and Panagra, is $530.
Aviation has a quick solution for passenger and freight services to former secluded areas that could not be properly assimilated into the national economy because of the high cost of roads and railways.
Aiany air lines connect Chile with the rest of the world and vice versa. Among the most important are Avianca, BSSA (British South American Airways), FAMA (Flota Aerea Mercante Argentina), PANAGRA (Pan American-Grace Airways), PAA (Pan American World Airways), PIT (Peruvian International Airways), ZONDA (Sociedad Mixta Zonas Oeste y Norte de Aerolineas Argentinas) and LAN (Linea Aerea Nacional).
The National Airlines of Chile (LAN) extend from Africa clear to the Straits of Magellan. The service from Santiago to Punta Arenas on the Straits, a nine-hour flight, was inaugurated in 1946. Out in Punta Arenas there is a shuttle service with Porvenir on Fire Island. Only Chilean lines handle local traffic. The LAN service is efficient and reliable, and Chileans have taken to the air in a big way.
Sports of the Land
Sports in Chile have been developed to a great degree. Football is highly popular though it resembles the English form of the game more than any other. Rugby and basket ball are popular sports. Boxing, in both the professional and the amateur cate-