8
PAKISTAN
(Continued from page 1)
superior civilization. Mogul viceroys who remained in power formed their provinces into independent states while Hindu and Mohammedan adventurers carved out kingdoms. With the dismemberment of the Mogul Empire, India was opened to the nations of Europe. The Venetians, the Genoese, the Portuguese and the Dutch traded with the sub-continent in turn. In 1602 the English appeared on the scene. As the Mohammedans had done in a previous century they came as traders but stayed to rule. To the Hindus their coming meant only a change of rulers but to the Moslems who fought against British Dominion it meant a gradual loss of social position, political power, educational opportunities and estates. Soon trade, commerce and the professions were delivered into the hands of more obedient Hindu subjects.
Moslem Reawakening
The Mohammedans of British India became the “have-not” people of the subcontinent. During the last quarter of the nineteenth century however the Moslem educator and reformer Sir Syed Ahmed Khan appeared on the scene and developed ideas that were to become the basic political heritage of his people. Realizing that they needed western education to regain political and economic power, he sparked a Moslem Renaissance which finally culminated in the creation of Pakistan. Based on the premise that their interests would be safe in none but their own hands the Moslem League was formed in 1906. In 1916 it was recognized as the authoritative representative organization of India’s 100,000,000 Moslems and by 1941 claimed 85% of them as members.
During the nineteenth century India was comparatively quiet with the ages old conflict between Hindu and Moslems continuing to smolder beneath the surface. Political power was held so securely by the British, who were stronger than either faction, that there was nothing for which to fight. In the early years of the twentieth century discontent began to increase but the outbreak of war in 1914 stilled unrest for a time as all India gave its Emperor, the King of England, undivided allegiance. Men and money were provided without stint by both the Central Government and the Indian feudal princes. But in 1917, with the British announcement of a policy of gradual development of self-governing institutions with a view to progressive realization of a responsible government in India as an integral part of the British Empire, the conflict flamed anew.
The desire of India for self-government steadily mounted and in 1935 a new constitution was promulgated allowing each province to have its own Government and elected Legislature. The Native States and British Indian Provinces were placed under a central government. Provincial governments were given autonomy in the administration of all subjects except those of defense, foreign affairs, communications and finance, which fell exclusively within the field of the central government. Moslems
Pa/v American
Would Airways Teacher	September - October, 1948
KARACHI — This is the camel market. Karachi has one of the largest camel
markets in the Orient.
were given representation in this government but as only one-third of the total Indian population they were a minority group. This had been the principal claim of Mohammed Ali Jinnah for the creation of Pakistan.
Why Pakistan Exists
Moslem nationalists claimed that they were not just another kind of Indian, not merely a minority people, but a separate nation with their own distinctive culture, philosophy, language, literature, art, architecture, social customs, calendar, history, traditions, aptitudes and ambitions. They neither inter-married nor inter-dined with Hindus. In short they had their own distinctive outlook on life and of life.
In contrast to the many Gods of the Hindu religion Mohammedans believed that there was but one God, Allah, and that Mohammed was His Prophet. The Koran, their sacred book, can be compared with the Bible of the Western World. Every Mohammedan must turn his face to the Holy City of Mecca, the birthplace of Mohammed, five times a day and pray. These periods are heralded by a muezzin’s call from one of the minaret balconies found on every mosque. On Friday, prayers must be said in a mosque. Mohammedans are also required to give alms, to fast during one month of the year, and to visit Mecca at least once in a lifetime. In addition they must abstain from intoxicating liquors, music, gambling and usury and must not paint or carve portraits of man.
As a separate people, Moslems felt they were entitled to self-determination in the parts of India where they were in the majority and which constituted their homelands. Quantitatively they cited Belgium’s population, nine million, the three million Bolivians and the one and a half million people in northern Ireland, and ask why they were not equally justified in directing their own destiny.
The Moslems also feared that the progress they began to make during the last two generations would be halted and their present position of inferiority frozen if Hindus retained predominant political power. Thus in 1940, after deep deliberation, a demand was formulated for a
separate nation which was granted by the Indian Independence Act of 1947. In partition the Government of India Act of 1935 was kept alive in both the Dominions of Pakistan and India with the modification that anything arising out of the decision to create two independent states would not be deemed to conflict with the Act. A minor change in the legislative field was to dissolve the central legislature and provide for two sovereign Constitutent Assemblies, one for each Dominion empowered to frame the Constitutions of the two states and to act as central legislatures for the interim period. The Constituent Assembly of Pakistan consists of members elected by the legislatures of the provinces.
Upon partition there was a, considerable movement of population in the disturbed areas of both Pakistan and India. Rioting and massacres accompanied many of these movements. About half of the million population of Lahore, the largest city in Pakistan, were Hindus or Sikhs, and nearly all of these groups moved to India. At the same time Moslems from East Punjab were moving west into Pakistan.
Pakistan is essentially an agricultural country of approximately seventy million “Pakistanis”, more than fifty-six million of whom are farmers. Nearly all of the country’s financial and professional men were among the four million Hindus who left the country to live in the Dominion of India upon partition. The six million who journed from India to Pakistan were for the most part impoverished Moslem peasants who left both land and tools behind them.
As one of the biggest graneries in the East however, food is not one of the new Government’s primary problems. The nation grows enough basic foodstuffs to feed its people. The two main food crops of the country are wheat and rice which are the staple foods of Western and Eastern Pakistan respectively. In 1938-39 the area comprising Pakistan had 43,900,000 acres under cultivation, thirty six million in wheat, ten million in rice and the rest in barley, maize and millet. Over one million tons of wheat and half a million tons of rice can be available for export. In normal production years surplus food of the provinces of