Pa\ America fit
World Airways Teacher	September. October, 194s
In contrast, Lahore, capital of the Province of West Punjab and situated on the banks of the River Ravi, is popularly known as the City of Gardens. With a population of nearly one and a half million it is the largest town in Pakistan and is associated with every period of Indian History. The Moslem declaration of independence (Pakistan revolution) was issued from Lahore. The city is full of monuments, the most famous among these being the Badshahi Mosque, the fort of Akbar, the tomb of Emperor Jehangir and the Shalimar Gardens. Lahore is the chief distribution center for the Punjab and is an important center for the trade in agricultural implements and articles required for thè use of a prosperous agricultural country. It also has one of the finest universities in Asia.
About thirty miles east of Lahore is the district of Amritsar, in India, which is of considerable commercial importance. Apart from its entrepot trade in precious goods, it has a large business in hides and skins and a well known carpet industry. Ivory and wood carving is also of considerable importance in the town.
LAHORE — Pakistan is a Moslem state—the find mosques in its cities like the Mosque
the tourist this means that a New Yorker can spend eight days of a two week vacation in a new and fascinating country and a traveler from California can spend eleven days of a three week vacation in the shadow of the towering peaks of the snow-capped Himalayas. This speedy transportation is even of greater import to businessmen who by traveling on weekends can now work a week in India and not be away from their desks for more than two weeks or so. This is indeed a contrast to the long periods of preparation necessary before executives could arrange to spend the months necessary to visit the Far East by steamer.
Besides PAA’s Flying Clippers all the world’s airlines between the East and West —the British Overseas Aviation Corporation, Air France and KLM-Royal Dutch Airlines land at Karachi in addition to Indian and Pakistan airlines. In August the Pakistan and Indian Governments signed a bilateral air transport agreement permitting airlines designated by their respective Governments to serve numerous routes in both countries. During the same month the Paldstan Government granted licenses to two of its domestic airlines, Orient Airways and Pak Air Ltd. to operate in the country.
The former had been operating on a temporary permit for about one year but the latter has still to begin operations. The value of air transportation to a nation whose territory is divided by 700 miles of foreign soil is self-evident.
Urban Pakistan
Though 80% of Pakistan’s population lives on farms, there are about twelve towns which have a population of more than a hundred thousand. Karachi, the capital of Pakistan has a population of over one million. Situated on the coast of the Arabian Sea, a little to the west of the estuary of the River Indus, its vast strips of a sandy beach and lagoons afford a natural harbor
largest. Consequently the traveler will of Badsahr in Lahore pictured here.
capable of expansion. When first seized by the British in the seventeenth century, in 1643 it was a little trading village of windowless mud houses surrounded by a tumbledown parapet of mud and built on a platform of mud covered rocks. Today although still dirty, noisy and unlovely it has grown into a bustling port, the third biggest in either Dominion. Although it cannot be regarded as an industrial center the city has important railway workshops, several modern flour mills and is a center of the leather trade. Karachi owes its importance to the fact that it is the chief export center for wheat and barley and a gateway of foreign commerce for the former northwestern provinces of British India and the frontier trade of Afghanistan and Baluchistan.
Dacca, the capital of Eastern Pakistan has recently developed into a big commercial city. Associated with the once famous Indian muslins, even today it produces one of the finest varieties of hand woven textiles. The University of Dacca is an outstanding institution and has made valuable contributions to various branches of knowledge. The city is also a center of agricultural research.
The 100,000,000 people of Pakistan have achieved one of their most sought after goals. They are embarking on a new era in their relationship with each other, their neighbors and the world. Beneath their green flag with its white star and crescent and white stripe symbolizing non-Moslem minorities within the nation’s borders, lives a people who have asserted their right to control their own destiny, suffer from their own mistakes and profit from their own successes.
KNOW YOUR AIR AGE
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER is published bi-monthly during the school term. It gives current information about international air transportation and is mailed, free of charge, to teachers requesting it.
THE FLYING CLIPPERS IN THE SOUTHERN AMERICAS is a collection of true stories about the drama and human interest of Clipper flying in Latin America.
PACIFIC-ALASKA FLYING CLIPPERS is a collection of stories about flying in the Pacific area, including Alaska.
AIR TRAVELER’S DICTIONARY, ENGLISH-SPANISH is a booklet listing in English and Spanish the phrases which are useful to the air traveler.
HOW TO WIN FRIENDS AND INFLUENCE PEOPLE IN LATIN AMERICA is a pamphlet in which customs and social usages of the Latin-American countries are discussed.
TIME DISC—A device for determining the time of day in any of the 24 time zones.
TRAVEL FOLDERS—Various folders on travel possibilities to foreign countries are available. Stock changes frequently. If you request travel folders you will receive those currently available.
Pamphlets on Good Neighbor Nations:
Hawaii, 1948
An Air View of Brazil Today.
An Air View of India Today.
Australia, Leader in the Southwest Pacific.
An Air View of Mexico Today.
Belgium, Crossroads of War and Peace.
An Air View of Guatemala Today.
China in the Air Age.
Great Britain in the Air Age.
An Air View of the Dominican Republic Today.
Request these free materials by writing
to Educational Director, Pan American
World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North,
Long Island City 1, N. Y.