Pan Am frrca/V
March-April	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	3
THE NEW REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By Lou A. Phillips
The birth of a new nation does not come easily.
In the Eighteenth Century it took the United States of America four years after their Declaration of Independence to assure themselves of the right to establish their own government. Even then many European countries would not believe our new nation could exist without regulation from abroad. But it did.
On August 17, 1945 the Republic of Indonesia was declared an independent sovereign state and a central government established. Four difficult years elapsed before the flag of the Republic was officially raised over its capitol on December 27, 1949. Great problems face this new Twentieth Century Republic. There is still a familiar undertone of cynicism from some countries concerning its success. But 77,000,000 Indonesians firmly believe they have earned the right to be free and to try to establish a democratic country of their own.
Many nations besides the United States are vitally interested in the future of the Indonesian Archipelago. It almost touches the Asian mainland at Malaya; it comes within a few short miles of the Philippines to the north; and is a short distance from
Australia to the south. Indonesia holds an important position in the world production of such raw materials as cinchona bark (the source of quinine), pepper, kapoc, rubber, copra, palm oil products, tea, sugar, tin and petroleum. It is a well known fact that as a Dutch Colony, trade in Indonesian products played an important part in the economy of the Netherlands by providing much needed foreign exchange, especially United States dollars.
Actually Indonesia is the world’s largest insular empire. Its land area is about 735,000 square miles which is greater than the combined areas of all the countries of Europe outside the Iron Curtain including the British Isles. Traveling by air from one end of Indonesia to the other is equivalent to flying from Chicago to Panama, or from London to Bagdad. Counting inland seas among the islands however, Indonesia stretches a distance of nearly 3,000 miles. Therefore its total land and sea area amounts to nearly four million square miles or one million square miles more than the solid block of land forming our forty-eight states.
For Americans the gateway to the new Republic is British-owned Singapore, a
small island at the southern tip of the Malay Peninsular. One of the greatest ports in the Orient, Singapore was founded in 1819 as a center for British and European trade with India and Asia. Pan American World Airways Strato-Clippers flying out of San Francisco touch at Honolulu, Wake Island, Guam, Manila and glide into Kallang Airport at Singapore every week. Actually Clipper travelers leave San Francisco Tuesday mornings at eleven, travel Thursday and Friday, and arrive Saturday mornings at five-thirty.
A unique incident occurs during the trip. Between Honolulu and Wake, as passengers cross the International Date Line, they lose Wednesday completely. Flying time is approximately thirty-five hours.
On return trips, Clipper passengers leave Singapore Sunday nights at ten-thirty, fly Monday, Tuesday and Tuesday. When recrossing the International Dateline an extra day is gained, thus making up for the lost one.
From Singapore local air service is readily available to Indonesian Territory only ten miles away. Djakarta, the Republic’s capital, is two hours and forty minutes from Singapore by air.
At the extreme west of the Archipelago nearest Malaya lies the island of Sumatra, comparable in size to the four states of Virginia, North and South Carolina and Georgia. Across a narrow strait which is only twenty miles wide in some places lies the island of Java which is about the size of New York State. North of Java and east of Sumatra is Kalimantan (Borneo) somewhat larger than Texas. One-fourth of the island belongs to the British Empire. At the extreme east of the Archipelago, nearest to Australia, lies New Guinea, of which an area known as West Irian, about as large as the states of Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana, belongs to Indonesia. The remaining half is under the jurisdiction of Australia. Between Kalimantan and West Irian’s eastern boundary lies the state of East Indonesia which is composed of a scattered group of islands. The largest island in this group is Sula West (Celebes) and the most famous are the small spice islands of the Moluccas. South of this group, the chain of the Lesser Sundra Islands spreads between Australia and Java.
SUMATRA
The wedge-shaped island of Sumatra lies across the equator. A ridge of jagged mountains stretching along the underside is referred to as the west coast. Swamps and broad plains fill the broad southerly base and extend along what is known as the east coast.
Far up the east coast about four degrees north of the equator and lying inland out of the swampy coastal area is Medan, the capital of East Sumatra and the most important commercial center on the island. The city is well planned for its conversion from a village occurred only towards the end of the last century about seventy years ago. There are wide, clean streets lined by modern buildings, several really good hotels, a modern swimming pool and a seaside resort on the coast only thirty miles away. Within the confines of Medan are to be found the Palace of the Sultan of
(Photo from Black Star)
INDEPENDENCE — These Indonesian paraders carry a banner depicting a steer, the symbol of the Indonesians’ light for independence. August 17, 1950 was the fifth anniversary of the date on which Indonesian independence was proclaimed.