12
Pan Am ear ca tv
World	AlrwaysTeacher
March-April
EDUCATIONAL AIR TRAVEL
Classes will be conducted in Spanish and students will be supplied with resumes in English.
Another session of interest to students from the U.S. will begin September 15 and will continue through December 15. The courses will include Spanish, Peruvian Literature, Peruvian Geography, Peruvian History and Peruvian Economy.
For the summer session, travel arrangements have been worked out by the Institute for World Studies, in cooperation with the United States Travel Agency. The Institute and the U.S. Travel Agency also are organizing tours which will include study at other universities in South America.
For detailed information, write to the U.S. Travel Agency, Washington, D. C.
Lafayette Study Tours
J. Harold Tarbell, Director of the Lafayette Study Tours advises that the Latin American tour leaving Miami July 2 via Flying Clipper is sold out, and that another group to depart July 5 now is being organized.
Ground arrangements for these tours are being made by American Express. For the most part luxury hotels are used (e.g. Miramar Palace in Rio). The price, all-inclusive, of $1295 for six weeks probably is as low as can be set for a trip of this type.
Lafayette Study Tours offers also a world tour beginning July 7 at New York and proceeding westward across the United States to San Francisco, thence to Honolulu, Japan, Thailand, India, the Near East, Greece, Italy, Holland and back to New York. This world tour needs a few additional takers to guarantee success, and persons interested should communicate promptly with Dr. Tarbell.
The address, for the Latin American tour, and the World Flight Program:
Dr. J. Harold Tarbell, Director, Lafayette Study Tours,
Lafayette College,
Easton, Pennsylvania.
Scholastic Magazines Tours
William Boutwell, Editor of Scholastic Teacher, visited Europe last year and laid the groundwork for the study tours which Scholastic Magazines will sponsor for trans-Atlantic travel this summer. Participants may fly to Europe or travel by steamer.
Scholastic Magazines also is sponsoring a Caribbean tour, which is entirely by air, so that the itinerary may be completed within three weeks. In addition, the magazines have offerings for travel within the United States, and information on all of these tours may be had by writing to the address at the end of this section.
The international tours offered by the Scholastic Magazines include:
The Caribbean
Three week flying field course embracing five major islands: six days in Puerto Rico; then stops at the Virgin Islands with its Danish heritage; Santo Domingo, earliest center of Spanish culture; Haiti, the New World’s only Negro republic; Jamaica, center of British culture; final
(Continued from Page 1)
week in Cuba, based in Havana, capital of the Caribbean. Syracuse University offers “America and the Caribbean,” as field course conducted by Professor Donald Bishop of the political science department. Caribbean waters keep the temperature equable throughout summer. Universities of Puerto Rico and Havana will welcome toui-group members. All travel by major airlines with departures from New York and Miami, June 25-July 14. Three credit hours—$51. All-expense travel including plane fare, hotels, meals and charter bus on islands—$680., approx.
Contemporary Drama in Europe
Opportunity for Americans to witness many drama features offered in connection with British Festival in London, Stratford, and elsewhere. Group will meet leaders in theatre. Later tour members will attend theatre festivals in Salzburg, Venice, and Edinburgh. Also Paris. Conductor is Prof. Sawyer Falk, head of the dramatic department at Syracuse University and president of the National Theatre Conference. Dr. Falk is now in Europe making plans for the group. July 20-Sept. 2. Six credit hours— three for Contemporary Drama in Britain, three for Contemporary Drama on the Continent—$102.
Art History in Europe—Renaissance to Modern
Field course in art history conducted by Professor Frederick Hauck, head of art history, Syracuse University. Opportunity to trace the rise and trends in art in famous buildings and museums of Europe: London, Bruges, Ghent, The Hague, Amsterdam, Paris, Venice, Verona, Padua, Ferrara, Aug. 16. Three credit hours—$51.
Valley of Mexico
Two weeks of travel on the cool upland plateau of the Valley of Mexico. City tour of Mexico City including Chapultepec Park, the University, famous Rivera murals, etc. Gardens of Xochimilco. Motor to Cuernavaca, city of the sun, and Taxco, city of silversmiths. On to Acapulco, the popular Pacific resort village. After a day of leisure and swimming, group returns to Mexico City. Inspection of 3,000-year-old Pyramids. Arrive Mexico City, July 9, leave July 22, $202 in Mexico.
England, Holland and Scandinavia 51 days
Visit British Festival presented only this year, excursions to Oxford, Stratford, and Windsor Castle. Whitehall and buildings of Parliament. To The Hague and its International Peace Palace, Rotterdam’s reconstruction. Amsterdam’s famous museums, canals, schools. Three weeks in Scandinavia—Copenhagen and Jutland; Göteborg to Stockholm; thence through Dale-carlia to Oslo and the fiord country. Departures June 1 and 28. $998.
Heart of Europe—51 days
France, Switzerland, Germany, Holland, England.
After a week in Paris group motors through eastern France to Switzerland’s lakes and snow-capped mountains—Berne, Interlaken, Lucerne, Zurich. Then to Strasbourg, new capital of Europe, Heidel-
berg, Frankfurt under reconstruction, and down the Rhine to Germany’s new capital at Bonn. From the industrial Ruhr the tour comes into Holland — Amsterdam, sees Dutch reclaiming land, visits Aalsmeer, Delft, The Hague. Then comes London and British Festival, Stratford, Oxford. Departures June 1, 28 and July 7. $998.
South and Central Europe------48 days
Disembark at Naples. Amalfi Drive to Pompeii, then to Rome. After stay in Holy City group motors to Perugia (University of Perugia). Hilltown highways to Florence, Ferrara, and Venice. Thence to Cortina and over Dolomite Alps passes beside glaciers to Zell am Zee and Innsbruck (University). Coach now takes group through Lichtenstein to Zurich. Visit to famous Pestalozzi Village for Europe’s orphans. Through Lucerne, Interlaken, and Berne into France. Final week in Paris—• Fontainebleau, Versailles, UNESCO headquarters, Chartres and its stained glass industry. Departure June 6. $998.
Write to:
Scholastic Travel Service
351 Fourth Ave.
New York 10, N. Y.
Dr. Nora B. Thompson
Nora Thompson’s keynote is informality.
In a letter to us in February she said:
“I want to fly in mid-June to Copenhagen for Hamlet in Kronborg Castle where Shakespeare laid it, to Lilliehammer or Rattvik for Midsummer’s Eve Maypole dance. We’ll sail on the fjords and climb mountains by bus, fly to Land of the Mid-nite Sun, meet some leaders, visit institutions, spend time in capitals—Helsinki,, Stockholm, Oslo, Copenhagen. I made connections last year.
“Latter part of August will be spent in England and Scotland at the “Festival of Britain” festivities. I made some helpful connections here as well as in Italy. As you know, 1 was abroad eight months on a ‘Sabbatical leave’.”
Readers who are interested in Nora Thompson’s tour should write to her at H14 Brynwood Apts., Wynnewood, Pa.
Summer Sessions in Europe
The summer sessions at the University of Paris (The Sorbonne) with travel arrangements by the Sorbonne American Institute of Summer Studies, and at the University of Barcelona, University of Lille and University of Toulouse with arrangements by the Richelieu Institute of University Studies Abroad were described in detail in the Jan.-Feb. issue of World Airways Teacher. The address for both institutes is 231 Peck Drive, Beverly Hills, California.
Make Your Own Program
Many teachers last year used the special low cost package arrangements to travel to Latin America. These special fares will be available again this year, and range from an all-expense air trip to Peru for $475, and a 16-day trip to Rio for $725 to an air journey around South America for $931. Your own travel agent can furnish details, or go to any Pan American World Airways sales office.