Pan American
World	Airways Teacher
March-April
(Photo from Black Star)
BALI — The girl dancers of Bali begin learning the intricate steps of dance routines at about four years of age, under the instruction of retired men dancers. In this picture, a Balinese orchestra may be seen in the background.
many population groups and the tremendous distances causing freight costs to be out of proportion to the value of merchandise. Only Macassar can ship directly to foreign ports and other cities must use coastal and intra-island shipping facilities to bring their products to' the point of export.
The Macassar area has a number of coconut oil factories, gold and silver smiths, tanneries and weaving enterprises, some of which are mechanized. The city is situated in the south of Sula West and is nearer to the more highly developed islands. Macassar has long been the trading center for all of the northeasterly islands of the Archipelago.
When the Portuguese first came to Indonesia, the town was already important and a trading center was established there. The Dutch and British also followed this pattern. Today Macassar has modern residential quarters and good hotels. Part of the city is quite old with a trading post and rows of Twelfth Century Dutch-type houses built close together. Other parts of the city are openly built with the sort of squares and fortresses seen in most Indonesian cities of importance to their former colonizers. The markets of Macassar are especially well known for their bright colored baskets. Rattan, palm leaves and similar materials are woven, plaited and dried into innumerable shapes with distinctive designs and gay colors.
BALI
The island of Bali has great strategic importance as an approach to Java and the naval base at Surabaya. It is perhaps the most famous island in Indonesia from a tourist standpoint.
Although Bali is separated from Java by a strait less than a mile wide at its narrowest, it was never subjected to any Mohammedan invasion. Thus the people still adhere to the Hindu ways brought directly from India. There are also marked traces of a much older pagan culture on the island which indicate the people’s derivation from an even older stock than the Hindu-Javanese.
The island is ninety miles long and roughly rectangular in shape with two exaggerated corners. Fifty miles across at its widest point it only has an area of just over 2,000 square miles. Tea and coconut palms grow profusely; sugar cane, coffee, cocoa, tobacco, indigo and peanuts are luxuriant; and both Malayan fruits and European vegetables grow well. The island’s many pigs are the source of a profitable business, being exported to Java and Malaya to become delectable food-stuffs for the Chinese population.
Agriculture and fishing are the chief activities of the Balinese, who are also craftsmen of world-wide renown. Fine pottery; weaving of rich coloring which incorporates gold and silver threads; gold and silver ornaments and bowls, which are either hammered or engraved; wood and stone carving; and stone architecture are all arts in which Balinese craftsmen are adept. For administrative purposes the island is divided into two parts; a northwestern sector of which the capital is Singaradja and a southeastern division whose capital in Den Pasar. A road almost straight across the
island which climbs 6,500 feet over Mt. Tabanan connects the capitals. There are two other similar cross-island roads and another which goes almost right around the island but there are no railroads or streetcars. Busses are beginning to make public transport faster. The two capitals have many fine buildings including a number of tourist hotels.
AGRICULTURE—THE WEALTH OF THE INDIES
As a result of an auspicious combination of favorable climate and, especially in Java, a soil enriched with the fertile ashes and lava from numerous volcanoes, Indonesia is a preponderantly agricultural country. More than 80% of the Indonesian people work their own farms either full time or at least as their principal occupation. As a Dutch Colony the government leased two and a half million acres, originally virgin forest land, to foreign owned plantations. This is only one-ninth of the twenty-two million acres of agricultural surface of the islands.
While Western capital and enterprise are devoted mainly to' the production of sugar, palm oil, cinchona, hard fibers, finer grades of tea and minerals, the Indonesian farmer has acquired a steadily increasing share in the cultivation of other export products.
The most important of these is rubber production which is carried on by Indonesian farmers in practically all sections of the country. Since 1894 the share of Indonesian owned farms in export trade has increased from eleven percent to forty-six percent. Among the products contributing to this increase were rubber, coffee, tea, copra, pepper, and tobacco. The production of main food crops such as rice, corn, cassava, soy beans, ground nuts, fruits and vegetables is almost entirely in the hands of Indonesian farmers.
As in China, Japan, India and Burma, rice is the main food of the native population. All rice produced, with the exception of a very high quality destined for export, is used within the country. In 1940 the
islands were on a self-sufficient basis concerning rice, but the population has increased about three million since that date and it has been necessary to supplement domestic supplies through imports. Sea fishing is carried on practically everywhere along the coast of the nation’s many islands and fish are a very important adjunct to the staple food, rice.
No more than four generations ago, Java had a population of four million, now there are 48 million. Its only agricultural products were a little tobacco, coffee, rice, coconut, some pepper and other spices, a few cereals and some soft fibrous plants. There was no' tea, no rubber, no quinine, very little sugar, no oil palms, no sisal or other hard fibers. Experimental tea gardens were set up in many parts of the island and seed imported from China, Assam and Japan. After fifty years the gardens were producing tea varieties which have become renowned throughout the world.
The cinchona tree, indigenous to Peru was brought to Java. Rubber from Brazil and coffee from Malabar were introduced. Better and new types of coffee were then introduced from Liberia and the Congo. The oil palm was brought from West Africa and cocoa was introduced from Central America. Other fibrous plants, such as Manila hemp, were also introduced.
The Indonesian farmer’s economic and social status is based on two widely divergent forces—the centuries old and inviolable tradition of the farming community and the development of modern agriculture with its technical application as introduced by foreign enterprise. For that reason, one finds in Indonesia, side by side with the farmer who with the help of his family cultivates his few acres of land without deviating from the methods inherited from his ancestors, a growing group of Indonesians applying themselves to a more extensive cultivation of export products.
The small farmer forms the overwhelming majority of the farm group as well as