March-April
of the entire population. Not only does he supply his own primary necessities of life (needing only a comparatively small amount of cash to provide the things he does not produce himself) but he has the added advantage that his garden without any effort on his part supplies the rattan and tap (roof covering) for the maintenance of his home.
The year round tropical heat reduces the need for clothing to' a minimum—sarong and jacket for the wife and sarong or shorts and coat for the man. His enterprise also requires less financial outlay than does the American or European farmer. Fertilizer and agricultural implements for which the Western farmer spends considerable money, are rarely needed. Help is not paid for in cash but according to the age old traditional method of mutual or communal assistance, each helping the other harvest the land or giving his services in exchange for part of the crop.
In isolated districts even the purchase of household goods and such is paid for with products from the soil. This system extends into Indonesian rubber production where the landowner pays his help by giving them half of the crop or, depending on the export price of rubber, one third of the crop. This system of payment is followed in the pepper districts of the Lampangs and the coffee areas in Bali. Working time generally is three hours in the morning and three in the afternoon, while moonlit nights find the farmer doing some extra work. Child labor is practically non existent except for the very lightest of tasks.
Mining is of considerable importance in Indonesia. The petroleum industry and tin mining have assumed international significance. Coal, bauxite and salt have also been mined and iodine has been obtained from mineral wells. Nickel and manganese have not been mined since the war and gold and silver production is negligible.
On a value basis the petroleum industry is the most important. Crude oil production exceeds 43 million barrels per year. Indonesian refineries turn out over 47 million barrels annually of petroleum products including motor gasoline, fuel, diesel oil, kerosene and aviation gasoline. Indonesia is the world’s greatest individual tin producer. One-third of the tin produced in Asia is obtained from the islands. The United States imports 40% of the tin ore exports.
INDUSTRIALIZATION
Industrialization of Indonesia is of rather recent date. Although various plans for industrial expansion had been suggested since the beginning of this century, it did not get its real start until the early thirties when the depression and the inroads of Japanese imports caused the government to encourage domestic production. In the next few years, the long existing indigenous industries were given new life and importance. These were the Batik, spinning and weaving, woodwork, parasol, tobacco, ceramic and leather industries, together with metal art crafts for which Indonesians have long been famous.
At the same time a number of factories financed by Western capital were also established, including metal and assembling plants, construction shops, machine, spin-
PAN AMERfCAN
Would Alemes Teacher
(Photo from Black Star)
QUININE-------The bark of the cinchona
tree yields quinine, essential to the control of malaria.
ning, beverage, flour and edible fat factories, tobacco making, tire and rubber goods factories and plants for the production of paints, soap, chemicals, cement, tile, earthenware, wood, glass and paper. So far manufacturing has remained chiefly confined to Java where the Indonesian population has gradually begun to participate to a large extent in the country’s economic development producing low-priced articles for home consumption.
Of the newly developed industries, the most significant in an economic sense is the textile industry. For the first time in its history, Indonesia reached self-sufficiency in the production of woven sarongs of cotton and rayon and of other cotton fabrics such as poplins, towels and bleached cotton goods.
Until late in the 1920’s these materials were made on primitive hand looms. Then standard improved models with capacities ten times greater than the older ones were introduced. In the 1930’s came the first mechanical loom which had a capacity four times greater than that of the improved hand loom. Much material was used in Indonesian factories which just before the war had also begun to manufacture heavy textiles such as army blankets and canvas.
The expansion of the textile industry has also had a stimulating effect on other industries. Woodworking shops made the new type of handloom and dye industries have increased their capacities. The difficulties of obtaining dyestuffs from Europe has led to intensification of indigo cultivation from which natural dyes for the domestic market can be made.
Another industry that has progressed rapidly is domestic cigarette manufacturing which produces hand made cigarettes for home consumption. These are made of cheap native tobacco mixed with ground cloves and wrapped in corn husk.
The manufacture of low cost furniture, utensils and tools also have become important. These new industries represent a source of direct income for the population and have released considerable purchasing
7
power by producing cheaper articles than could be imported. This is particularly true with woven sarongs, the standard clothing apparel of the Indonesians.
Future prosperity can be aided by industrial production of consumer goods on a widening scale for markets abroad as well as at home. Indonesia’s position with its seventy million workers and large potential market for imported commodities certainly will facilitate the finding of markets for their own products in India, Siam, Indochina, Malaya and the Philippines.
TRADE
The Netherlands receives the principal share in terms of value of Indonesian commodities, purchasing about one-third of its total exports. These include rubber, tin, copra, palm oil and tea. Imports into Indonesia represent one-fifth of the total import value and consist principally of foodstuffs, textiles, machinery and metal products.
The United States is the principal source of Indonesian imports, supplying nearly one-fourth of the total import value. These imports consists of machinery, vehicles, iron and steel products, textiles and foodstuffs. 15% of Indonesians exports go to the United States of which rubber represents 43% and tin accounts for 31%. Commodities of lesser value in trade are palm oil, tea, copra, pepper, resins, bauxite, rattan and citronella oil. About 30% of Indonesia’s export trade and 9% of its import trade is carried on with European countries, principally the United Kingdom, Belgium and Luxembourg, Germany and Sweden.
The new Republic’s imports from and exports to countries in Asia and Australia represents about 20% of the total value of such trade. Imports are made up chiefly of textiles and clothing from Japan, China, Hong Kong and India and rice from Thailand and Burma. Exports are primarily petroleum products shipped to Australia and southeast Asian countries. However, Singapore is an important entrepot for other types of Indonesian products and Japan imports Indonesian rubber, copra, palm oil and resins.
During 1950 Indonesian raw materials were in considerable demand abroad and its exports increased. The nation accumulated an impressive amount of foreign exchange for financing the purchase abroad of needed basic commodities and rehabilitation materials. Complete rehabilitation of the country’s economy in general however requires outside help in the form of loans and foreign investments. An initial step in this direction is a recently acquired $100 million loan from the Export-Import Bank of the United States which is being used to improve Indonesia’s transportation system, telecommunications, harbors and agricultural production. A total of $8 million in Economic Cooperation Administration appropriations are destined for technical assistance, health projects and aid in establishing rehabilitation projects for former soldiers.
EDUCATION
Rapid development of industrial mechanization occurred during the decade preceding the war. In order to assimilate the thousands of new workers absorbed each