2
Pan American.
World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, I 95 1, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to:
Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
DEDUCTIONS FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES
Are you aware that certain travel expenses are deductible items for income tax purposes ?
The Research Division of the National Education Association recently compiled information about deductions for various types of expenses, including certain types of travel expenses, which may be taken by teachers. This information may be obtained from the NEA, or see the summary in the March 7 issue of Scholastic Teacher.
It is important to take only those deductions which the Internal Revenue Bureau has indicated are allowable. One is summer school expenses, when it is necessary to incur them for the purpose of maintaining one’s position. Another is traveling expenses incurred by teachers on sabbatical leave who receive compensation while engaged in the required traveling and who must report relative to their travels.
Still another is expenses of travel incurred when traveling for the purpose of attending meetings of scientific societies.
There has been a decision that railroad fare expended by a member of the faculty of a university in traveling from his regular place of employment to his place of temporary employment at a summer school is a deductible business expense. One would assume that air fare should be in the same category—however, the particular decision referred to railroad fare.
Still another decision was that the amount expended by a university professor for traveling expenses, including meals and lodging, while rendering professional services elsewhere than in the city in which he maintained his home, is deductible in computing net income.
The principle which appears to govern is that the expense must be necessary to the earning of the income, which also governs with respect to travel expenses in other professions, and to other types of deductible business expenses. Expenses for travel which is solely recreational are not deductible,
A teacher’s summer travel, therefore, may or may not constitute a deductible item, and it probably would be wise to seek the advice of a representative of the Bureau of Internal Revenue, if there is any question as to whether the expenses of specific travel fit the requirements for a deductible item.
Pan American
World Airways Teacher	March-APrii
Thanks, Mrs. Hunter
We had a letter the other day from Mrs. R. C. Hunter of Sharon, Pa., and we quote:
“May I say here that I think your company has certainly done much to cement a firm friendship between our children and the other countries. The result will be immeasurable as our countries begin to understand each other better. We teachers appreciate the research you have done to compile these teaching aids that have made school life more interesting to pupil and teacher.”
We like that pat on the back.
We’ll have fi> use this opportunity, though, to say that we now are trying to express all our ideas through the medium of the World Airways Teacher, and do not have teaching units and pamphlets to' send to you.
Certain materials which we formerly kept on the shelves are still listed in compilations of free and inexpensive teaching materials. It takes time to get changes made in these listings. We get so many letters about these out of print units and pamphlets that we’ve had to resort to a multigraphed form. We’d rather write individually, but we’d get snowed under if we tried to do it that way. If you have received the form letter, won’t you take this as additional thanks for writing to us.
Bargain Air Fare
Pan American World Airways has reduced its tourist class fare between New York and San Juan to $64. This is an $11 reduction from the former $75 one-way tourist fare and will make the round-trip tourist fare $128 as against the present $150.
The Civil Aeronautics Board granted the fare reduction on the condition that there be no complimentary food service of any kind on the flight.
Pan American was the first airline in the world to provide tourist class service. PAA opened tourist service on the New York-San Juan route, September 1948.
Daily Service to Paris
Pan American World Airways will begin daily service to Paris on May 1, and Pan American’s weekly flight from New York to Nice will be extended to Rome on May 1, providing four-times-a-week service to the Italian capital with three flights by way of Paris and the fourth on the southern route.
The increased service is the result of a new agreement signed by the United States and the French government.
All Paris flights and three Rome flights will be made with doubled-decked “Strato”
Clippers. The flight to Rome via Nice will be made with Constellation-type Clippers.
Pan American opened service to Paris on December 17, 1950, and to Rome on January 2 of this year. Both cities were added to PAA routes by President Truman and the Civil Aeronautics Board in a decision realigning the Atlantic route pattern to provide better balanced competition between the American flag carriers.
Pan American pioneered air service between the United States and France, operating the first Clipper flight between Port Washington, L. I. and Marseilles by way of Lisbon on May 20, 1939.
American Institute of Foreign Trade
Just a few miles outside Phoenix, Ariz. there is a little man-made oasis called Thunderbird Field, which is earning a big reputation in almost every country outside the Iron Curtain.
Built just before World War II as a school to train combat pilots for the Army Air Forces, Thunderbird is now the campus of the American Institute for Foreign Trade, which in September 1950 enrolled its fifth class of young men and women to be expertly trained for foreign service.
The Institute is one of the most unusual educational institutions in this country. Its purpose is to give Americans who plan to make their careers in the international field the background they need to be successful in their work—and successful, too, in carrying the message of American democracy to other countries.
Although the Institute has been in operation less than four years, more than 220 Institute graduates are already stationed permanently in some thirty different foreign countries. Most of them—about 83%—are working for American private enterprise, with oil companies, rubber companies, banks, transportation concerns and manufacturers. They are a new kind of ambassador without portfolio, and they are helping to make a reality out of the Good Neighbor Policy.
The educational program at Thunderbird is as practical and hard-hitting as the cadet training that went on there during the war. Students learn modern languages by the most advanced methods, they are immersed in the outstanding characteristics of various important world areas, and they get a heavy dose of the business administration methods that really work in the international field.
The usual student at Thunderbird Field is able to complete the course in two semesters, or a full school year of about nine months. Most students enter in September and finish in June, but some enter in February and finish the following February.