Pa/v Am F ftrcAV
March-April	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER	«
(Photo from Black Star)
CARACAS TO LA GUAIRA — Tourists generally go by automobile from Caracas down the mountain road to La Guaira at the ocean’s edge, but teen-age Venezuelan boys prefer their home made soap-box-derby type vehicles.
be the best likeness of the three that were painted from life.
Walking south from the Plaza Bolivar you will come to the Plaza Henry Clay, with its statue of the North American statesman who was an early sponsor of inter-American cooperation.
In Venezuela, Bolivar is more than a name to be mouthed in commencement or campaign oratory, more than a subject of reading for those studiously inclined. He is a continuing ideal actively present in the workaday thoughts of all sorts of men. In Caracas, besides encountering casual reminders of him at every turn, you will find three memorials especially devoted to him. These are the Bolivar Museum, the Casa Natal, and the National Pantheon.
The Bolivar Museum contains hundreds of relics of the wars of independence. The most prized is perhaps the sword given Bolivar by the City of Lima in gratitude for the liberation of Peru. The scabbard is of gold, the hilt is set with diamonds, and the chased steel blade was reputedly fashioned from an aerolite and tempered by the master craftsman Chumpapoma, a descendant of the Incas. Another treasure is the “Sun of Peru” presented by General San Martin, the Protector of Peru, to the Liberator, when they held their celebrated meeting in Guayaquil in 1821. It is a gold medallion with diamonds. Other prized relics are; the locket containing a strand of George Washington’s hair, sent by the President’s family and worn constantly by Bolivar; the spear carried by General Paez in the battle of Carabobo and his gold-sheathed sword.
PLAY PEN------The little balcony with
its enclosing grill work is called a “flirting window” in Caracas. It serves equally well for a play pen.
The Casa Natal, where Bolivar was born, is a typical aristocratic colonial house. It has been carefully restored and filled with furniture of the era, and the walls have been decorated with murals by the Venezuelan artist, Tito Salas, depicting scenes in the life of the Liberator.
The National Pantheon’s elongated middle tower, flanked by two lesser ones, stands silhouetted against a backdrop of mountains and sky. The building, formerly a church, by its height dominates the whole broad plaza in front of it, in the northern part of Caracas. You will pass through an iron gate along a tiled corridor to the Bolivar chapel in the central apse. Bolivar’s monument is lit by a magnificent candelabrum. His urn rests upon a pedestal carved with a bas-relief of two mourning figures. Behind, under a marble canopy supported by columns rises the draped standing effigy of Bolivar. On either side stand two smaller symbolic statues. The whole memorial achieves an effect of effortless grandeur. In the side chapels are imposing monuments to Generals Francisco Miranda and Antonio José de Sucre.
One of the show places of Caracas is the large modern housing development of El Silencio at the foot of Calvary Hill. Looking at these well designed apartment houses grouped around a spacious plaza you’ll find it hard to believe that this area was only recently an awful slum. The development is considered a model for low-cost housing projects in Latin-America.
Plaza Mohedano is in the east of the central district. You can visit the Museum of Fine Arts and the Museum of Natural Science, and drive through the splendid park of mahogany trees to which the plaza gives entrance. You may wish to follow Avenida Sur to its end, then bearing southwest and crossing one of a series of bridges over the Guaire river, reach El Paraíso, one of the older suburbs. In the outskirts the single-storied houses give way to villas of every conceivable style.
Things to Remember
Though in the hotels and restaurants of Caracas the meals served are like those of any cosmopolitan city, you will remember the typical Venezuelan dishes. The names
may sound strange at first, but their taste will be something to remember. Some of the dishes you will want to' try are sancocho (stew of meat or fish with vegetables), arroz con polio (chicken and rice cooked with vegetables), pabellón (rice and meat), hálleteos (similar to Mexican tamales), arepa (white corn bread), pastel de Maracay (turtle meat pot pie). You will also enjoy the Venezuelan coffee, hot chocolate and candies.
You will remember the elaborate bullfights performed with great ceremony at the Nuevo Circo on Sundays. You will learn that for the corridas (bullfight), bulls are often flown in over the mountains by Linea Aéropostal Venezolana “to avoid the mood-destroying bouncing they’d get” riding the tortuous hairpin drive from the hot tropical port of La Guaira or elsewhere, up to the 2,600-foot coolness of Caracas.
You will remember the Andean Highway, one of the great scenic roads of the Americas, which runs from La Guaira to the Colombian border.
From the exhibits of native industries maintained in Caracas you will buy all sorts of fascinating souvenirs: jewelry or oro cochano—exquisitely wrought flowers of pure nugget gold brightened with dew-drop pearls ; handsome articles of native tortoise shell and of horn ; pearls and articles beautifully decorated with mother-of-pearl from the Island of Margarita. You will cherish the very delicate lace and the fine embroidery made by the women of the country ; the hammocks of fiber or cotton and woven as fine as lace ; the articles of leather, alligator skin and feathers brought from the llanos; or you will buy the straw hats, and sandals woven in gaily colored cotton—attractive souvenirs to take home.
You will not forget the lottery vendors shouting numbers under your window at night so that you will remember in the morning to buy the tickets from them.
You may be hundreds of miles away the next morning ; your Pan American Clipper may be flying at great heights over the ocean, but you cannot forget your Venezuelan friends—slow to warm to strangers, although underneath marked by warmth and generosity.