Pan American
March-April	World Airways Teacher	»
(Photo from Black Star)
TEACHER — Miss Mae Lundgreen is teaching English from the pages of the Caracas Journal, the only English language paper in Caracas.
many new factories are being built. Glass and cement production continues to increase and to receive Government aid. Heavy industries, however, aside from oil. is lacking. Plans are afoot for a steel industry and a natural gas plant, as well as for the electrification of parts of the country.
One important natural resource—iron— was all but ready for exportation at the end of 1950. The Iron Mines Company, a Bethlehem subsidiary, said it expected to export 2,000,000 tons of high-grade iron ore in 1951. The United States Steel Corporation is expected to follow, with production of 10,000,000 tons annually, by 1955. A reserve of 1,000,000,000 tons of high-grade iron ore had been proven by the end of 1950, placing Venezuela among the world’s leaders in this mineral.
American capital continued to be interested in Venezuelan business during 1950. The oil companies made large investments in their projects. Sears, Roebuck & Co. opened a large retail store in Caracas. Several hotels in the country are being constructed with American capital, and there
are projects for light industries and automobile assembly plants.
As you can see, Venezuela is a country which not only offers something new and interesting for the passing visitor but real opportunities for those with the spirit of business adventure and faith in their own effort and ability.
Air Service in Venezuela
Venezuela, like most Latin American countries, has taken to the air in a great way. Aviation has given a quick solution for passenger and freight services to former secluded areas that could not be properly assimilated into the national economy because of the prohibitive cost of roads and railways. Whole new districts have not only been brought to the doorsteps of the modern world, but have been put to new productive use and received the impulse of modern civilization.
Venezuela has built several new airports. Today the country is proud of important air lines which cover the national territory and serve the Western Hemisphere and Europe. These companies are: Aerovías Venezolanas —AVENSA (Associated connecting carrier
—Pan American World Airways) serves La Guaira-Maracaibo; La Guaira-Maturin via Barcelona—Santa Barbara—Cachipo ; La Guaira-Ciudad Bolivar; La Guaira-San Fernando.
Línea Aérea de Venezuela. (Taca System) .
Línea Aeropostal Venezolana—LAV.
Four international routes are now maintained: Caracas (Maiquetias Airport) to New York via Havana; Caracas to Lisbon, Paris and Rome; Caracas to Trinidad; Caracas to Rio and Buenos Aires.
Pan American World Airways, of course, maintains its regular services not only to Venezuela but to every country in the Western Hemisphere.
Education Marches On
As in every Latin American country, the Venezuelan authorities are keenly interested in promoting education throughout the country. Though literacy is low, the ever increasing number of new schools indicates that the situation is changing year after year. Elementary primary education is compulsory and free. The city child supplements his elementary studies with two years of upper primary work. Upon completion of the latter, four choices are open to him. He may seek specialized training at an art school, at a commercial or technical institution, or at a normal school, or he may continue with a secondary course designed to prepare him for the university and eventually for a profession.
Caracas has many specialized schools, among others, the School of Music which provides instruction in the musical field. The School of Plastic and Applied Arts gives training in painting, drawing, and sculpture, and in the making of ceramics, stained glass, textiles, enamels, and engravings.
Girls desiring vocational training may go to the Vocational School which offers courses in dressmaking, millinery, embroidery, cooking, beauty culture and so on. Boys may attend classes in the Caracas Technical Industrial School, or may study stenography, accounting, and business methods at the Commercial Institute.
Young men and women may attend normal schools which prepare them to teach in urban primary schools. Those who wish to enter the Central University at Caracas must go through the secondary schools or liceos and comply with many prerequisite courses before admission. The Central University is open to men and women who can enroll in the schools of medicine, law, engineering, dentistry, pharmacy, architecture, surveying, and geology.
A high position in Caracas’ cultural life is occupied by the center of higher learning known as the Instituto Pedagógico Nacional. It has as its principal object the training of a teaching body for secondary and normal schools. During their studies, all students are required to take philosophy, general and educational administration, and the principles of sociology and educational sociology. In addition every student must elect courses « in one of the five specialized fields of biology and chemistry; mathematics and physics; history and geography; Spanish, literature, and Latin; English and French. The work in the required subject is comparable to that