Pan American
March-April	WORLD AfRMAYS TRAC/LDR 5
principal rivers of the island, the Brantas, has been widened and canalized to act as a main thorofare to the heart of the city which lies slightly off shore.
On either side of this canal are two big harbors. To the east is the principal naval base of the islands and to the west is a commercial harbor. A shipping canal lies still further west and warehouses line all the docks. The entire network of shipping facilities is connected with main centers inland by road and rail. Ships can be serviced speedily and goods for transshipment or for export quickly brought to the port.
The city has an airport, a flying-boat base, rail, bus and streetcar services and vehicular and pedestrian ferry service to the island of Madura. The ferries are actually old landing craft taken over from the Allies when they returned after the Japanese occupation. There are hotels, movies, shops and markets, modern houses and offices, trees arching the streets and the usual crowded down-town quarters.
Sugar is the principal product of the area and Surabaya is the headquarters of the sugar syndicate. Other industrial establishments in the city include: an electric light factory; weaving mills; a cigarette factory; machine shops; a bicycle assembly plant; glass factories; shipbuilding and repair factories; and factories for the manufacture of replacement parts and small machines for industrial establishments throughout Indonesia, including sugar refineries. The second largest railway locomotive workshop on Java, is also located in Surabaya.
KALIMANTAN
The third largest island in the world, Kalimantan, known as Borneo in English-speaking countries, extends further north than any of the islands which contribute to Indonesian territory. The northern part of the island is under British domination with the Indonesian sector lying quite near to the equator.
A chain of mountains runs down the longest stretch of the island from northeast to southwest and another cuts across it in an east-west direction about the center of the island. The capital of the southeastern section is Bandjarmasin while the capital of the southwestern sector is Pon-tianak. The hinterland is a true tropical forest interspersed with swamp lands. As yet not thoroughly explored, the region’s potential resources still remain unknown.
Bandjarmasin is situated among the swampy mouths of half a dozen deep, swift flowing tropical rivers which drain the largest plains area on the island. The city is built on an island formed by silt from two of the rivers, both navigable for big ships beyond the city. Thus it has a good harbor and carries on the import and export trade of the great valley region. Rubber, pepper, timber, rattan, cordage, fibers, gold and diamonds are the chief exports.
Pontianak lies near the mouth of another large river draining the southwestern section of the island. Along the surrounding coast coconut palm groves extend everywhere in the interests of the copra and palm oil trades whose proceeds are swelled by income from pepper and rubber. Ship building is also carried on. Silks are dyed and woven and beautifully patterned
baskets, gay with bright colors are a local specialty. There are some factories for the processing of raw materials grown nearby, but most manufacturing is carried on by small family groups or by single persons.
Houses in both cities are built on piles to enable them to remain above water during times of flood tides; gardens have walls and ditches built around them to stop penetration of water and to drain them off.
WEST IRIAN
One of the least known places in the world is West Irian on the island of New Guinea. Half of its 318,000 square miles, known as West Irian, is occupied by Indonesia. The other half is under the jurisdiction of Australia. The area is very sparsely settled and the native population consists almost entirely of aborigines who are unaccustomed to work.
Efforts have been made to recruit labor from Java, but the average Javanese is very unwilling to go to West Irian as compared with Sumatra or even Borneo. The island’s principal products are copra, shells, mother of pearl and pearls.
Not yet fully explored, the section is believed to be highly mineralized and rich in coal, gold and petroleum, while fertile soil affords excellent opportunities for raising cattle, sugar, coconuts and other tropical crops. The chief town in West Irian, Me-rauke, only has a population of 2,000. The other two towns of any size Monoloeari and Fak-Fak have populations of 2,000 and 1,000 respectively.
EAST INDONESIA
Between Kalimantan and West Irian lies the state of East Indonesia which is made
up of hundreds of islands with a total surface of 140,000 square miles. Half of this area is occupied by the four pronged island Sula West (Celebes) whose capital, Macassar, has become the capital of the new state.
Included in the state are the Moluccas and the Lesser Sundra Islands, including Bali. All of these islands are inhabited by scores of larger and smaller population groups that differ widely both ethnologically and economically. Their economic development ranges from collective agriculture, hunting and fishing to a highly developed economic system of commerce, industry and transportation.
Of the ten million inhabitants about 75% are directly dependent on the production and export of copra for their livelihood. This unilateral basis of the islands’ economy renders the territory extremely sensitive to the fluctuation of copra prices in the world market. An effort is being made to develop new industries and export products. Rubber, coffee, tobacco and sugar cane cultivation have been begun recently.
Except for copra, agriculture is directed mainly toward domestic food production. In some places, especially Bali and Lonbok, rice cultivation on irrigated fields interchanged with fruit growing has reached a high state of perfection. Some corn, spices and kapoc are raised on a comparatively small scale.
Except for the Macassar area and a shipbuilding industry in Sula West, the Moluccas and Sangir, western industrial life has penetrated but little into the islands. This is the result of the isolated location of
(Photo from Black Star)
RUBBER------Throughout Indonesia rubber is a leading industry, on some islands
ranking first. This picture, from an island formerly in the Dutch East Indies, shows how the tree is tapped.