Pan Amerícan
i»
CARACAS — Simon Bolivar, the liberator of Venezuela and other South American countries, is memorialized by this equestrian statue in the plaza at Caracas.
of an undergraduate college in the United States, while that in the elective fields is on the graduate level.
Besides the academic institutions mentioned above, a variety of libraries, museums, and learned societies contribute to the cultural aspects of Caracas.
Newspapers and magazines are numerous in Venezuela. A few years ago Carl W. Ackerman, Dean of Columbia’s School of Journalism, went to Venezuela to help develop a formula for Latin America’s first journalistic school.
Venezuela has produced great poets and novelists. Undoubtedly the best known in the United States is Rómulo Gallegos, novelist and former President of his country. He records man’s struggle against barbaric nature in the novel to which he gave the symbolic title of Doña Bárbara (1929). Not only nature is barbaric in the prairies of Venezuela—man is also made barbaric by it, and the protagonist is a typical instance.
In recent years, Antonio Arraiz has achieved a widely popular following. Arraiz’ novels and stories have had possibly the widest readership after those of Gallegos. He has turned to folk themes. His Uncle Tiger and Uncle Rabbit charmingly re-tells satirical and allegorical stories familiar to every Venezuelan farm boy.
Among the poets, Juan Beroes writes free verse, modern-European style to a more rhythmic concept, and the poet Eloy Blanco is still the foremost classicist. In Caracas the learned societies consist of the Academies of Language and Letters, Medicine, Political and Social Sciences, and History.
Like so many Latin American governments, Venezuela’s plays a significant part in the publication of literature. The Ministry of Education, in addition to several other publishing activities, has been issuing for several years now a useful series of
little books called the “Biblioteca Popular Venezolana.” The series, which is intended to circulate primarily among students and people of modest means, includes not only reprints of older Venezulan semiclassics but also notable contemporary works. Each volume is pocket-sized (5"x7"), paper-covered, and costs about IS cents U.S. currency. During 1950 there appeared several interesting books. No. 33, Carlos Brandt, El Misterioso Almirante: a controversial biography of Columbus. No. 34, Mariano-Picón-Salas, Comprensión de Venezuela: essays by a master about the country’s cultural problems, etc. If you want a copy, you may be able to get it by writing to Dirección de Cultura, Ministerio de Educación Nacional, Caracas.
All these cultural efforts backed up by material wealth are bound to create a new Venezuela in the future.
Caracas
Caracas, the capital, is located on the southern slopes of the Coastal Range. Its altitude of 2,600 feet mitigates the heat found elsewhere near the tenth parallel, and the Caribbean cordillera cuts off moisturebearing winds so that the average yearly rainfall is moderate. Throughout the year the temperature varies between 51 and 84 degrees F. The population is estimated at about 500,000.
For the most part Caracas is a city of single-storied houses with tiled roofs, whose background of mountains is green in the wet season and brown in the dry. The ridges and folds of the hills are more curving than angular, as if they had been moulded of some soft substance. On clear days the sky is a brilliant blue and clouds of dazzling whiteness darken the crests with vast moving shadows. A Spanish air still clings to old Caracas. Its narrow streets cross at right angles and open into frequent shady squares. Many of the aristocratic old houses still re-
March-April
main, built in the traditional colonial style, with patios in the center and barred windows and overhanging balconies looking onto the streets. But old Caracas is fast vanishing. Broad new avenues are changing the original pattern of the streets, and modern buildings are replacing the old houses.
If you are looking for the traditional, however, you will not be disappointed. The older streets are narrow and crowded, and the houses along them conform to the colonial pattern of plain façades and iron grilled windows. The entrance to such a house leads past the drawing-room to a sunlit patio gay with flowering plants, birds, and pet animals. The patio is an outdoor hall with bedrooms, dining-room, kitchen, all opening on it, and the scene of children at play, servants moving about their work, and guests or tradesmen arriving or departing—the daily life of the household is constantly being enacted.
In general, the aspect of Caracas is varied by many plazas, landscaped formally with flower-beds and palm trees, and by parks in which all kinds of bushes and trees bloom with tropical profusion. The center of the city is Plaza Bolivar. Here is the meeting-place of four great avenues named for the points of the compass. Streets or maps are logically named in accordance with their relation to these avenues. Logic, however, ends with the maps. In practice nobody uses the numbers of the streets. As in most Latin American cities, people still use old familiar names. In downtown Caracas, for instance, you live between picturesquely-named street intersections. Thus an address may be given as a certain number between “The Delights” and “The Black Oxen,” between “The Governor” and “The Shoemaker,” or “The Wind” and “The Dead Man” not to mention between “Hope” and “Charity.” Very interesting for the visitor —and sometimes charmingly confusing.
An equestrian statue of the Liberator occupies the center of the Plaza Bolivar, whose shady walks are like an open-air club, where friends meet to discuss everything. The figure of the rider is restrained and dignified. As seen from below the powerful body of the horse, with the exaggerated arch to the neck, gives a curiously stylized and archaic effect.
On one side of the square is the massive colonial Cathedral, which contains notable paintings and the tombs of Bolivar’s father, mother and wife.
The Casa Amarilla (Fellow House), across the square from the Cathedral, houses the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The City Hall, also facing the Plaza, contains the “Independence Hall” in which Venezuela’s Act of Independence was signed in 1811. The Capitolio occupies the entire block to the southwest of the Plaza. Built around a spacious flower-filled patio it contains the legislative and high court chambers, some ministerial offices and the famous Salon Eliptico where Presidents of Venezuela take the oath of office. The ceiling of this hall is decorated with panoramic murals of celebrated battle scenes in the struggle for Venezuelan independence, and the walls hold portraits of the leaders in this struggle. Notable among them, is the portrait of Bolivar, which is considered to