8
year by mechanized industry, a very extensive educational service was instituted, including a number of consultation offices, a large staff of technical and economic instructors and a staff of traveling vocational teachers. Full use was made of the Textile Institute, a ceramics laboratory at Bandung, a tannin and leatherworks laboratory and a batik testing bureau at Jogjakarta. Of greatest importance were traveling teachers, chosen from the best Indonesian craftsmen and given special training on Indonesian vocational conditions. They traveled with one or two assistants and simple tools calling on thousands of workshops to teach the use of good equipment to everyone from apprentice to management.
Along the lines of the instructional campaign carried out to aid industrialization, a program is being promoted to insure a firm foundation for democracy. Plans have been carefully prepared for the eradication of illiteracy and the development of a well educated population. In thousands of villages throughout Indonesia, schools are opening for the first time and men, women and children are taking advantage of this opportunity to acquire an education.
VENEZUELA
(Continued from Page 1)
tine Hill in Rome, called God and man to witness that he would not rest his arm or soul until he had broken Spain’s chains upon his fatherland. In 1810, the Venezuelan will go on, Bolivar returned to his country, to fulfill his pledge. For thirteen years, in defeat and victory, he led his armies through the lands now called Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia, becoming general, president, protector and Liberator.
Exaggeration? Far from it. The spiritual father of Pan-Americanism today, Bolivar called the first Conference of American States at Panama in 1826. He wrote constitutions, organized governments and founded the Gran Colombia, which in 1830 became the independent States of Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela. Yet, almost alone, exile bound, he died near Cartagena in 1830, believing he had “ploughed in the sea.” Today Bolivar shares with San Martin of Argentina chief credit for the freedom of their world.
Venezuela’s 352,000 square miles about equals Texas plus Colorado. She has a span of some 900 miles east to west, and a maximum depth south and north of 700 miles. If you travel over the country, you will discover that there are four Venezuelas:
First, the Andean region which is marked by a spur of the cordillera thrust down from the southwest.
Second, the heart of the country which is marked by the llanos (plains) of the Orinoco, one of the three great river systems of South America, whose tributaries drain from the jungles of Colombia and Brazil. This is the land of a hundred swelling rivers, of recurring floods, of wild grass and deep soil.
Third, to the southeast lie the Guiana highlands over against Brazil and British Guiana, plateaus heavy with tropical forests, largely unexplored.
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
In places where there are no buildings to be spared for educational purposes, pupils gather around teachers, sitting quietly on the ground and listening attentively. Books, paper and pencils are shared and printed matter is treasured.
In spite of these difficulties the educational system now reaches into the smallest villages. Teachers range from fourteen to forty. Many have never taught in schools before and have never studied the intricate theories of education. But they are all joined together in what is perhaps the most ambitious effort ever undertaken by an Asiatic nation.
The national educational movement was born fifty years ago and progressed with the growth of the national movement. In spite of financial difficulties and opposition from the Colonial Government, Indonesian national schools sprouted like mushrooms, first in Java and later on throughout the entire Indonesian Archipelago. In 1945 when the Republic was proclaimed a real national educational system for all was organized. Industrial schools play a particularly valuable role in the educational plan. This group comprises teachers colleges,
Fourth, along the Caribbean lies the coastal plain, spreading out at the west to surround Lake Maracaibo and the oil fields. Venezuela is a land of every climate: steaming heat in the lowlands, temperate comfort in the highlands where the chief cities stand, and cold in the high mountains.
But Venezuela is more than geography, fortunate though it is in its geographical riches. It is also people—over four million of them. Some are city folk whose ancestors founded the cities of Caracas, Valencia and Merida in early colonial times; some are farmers, who cultivate the fertile mountain valleys; some are llaneros, who ride the plains tending herds of cattle and who dance the gay joropos, the national folk dance of Venezuela. Some are oil workers, many of these are of negro descent. They are lovers of music and dancing. In the jungles there are some pure Indian tribes who keep their primitive way of life.
Oil in Venezuela
Venezuela in 1950 was one of the most fortunate countries in the world. Her domestic commerce was close to the record; dollar reserves continued high; oil production was the greatest in her history and the country had virtually no unemployment.
Venezuela’s oil industry centers in Maracaibo. You see the derricks stretching almost fifty miles along and fifteen miles into the edge of the vast greenish lake from miles away. As your Flying Clipper gets closer you spot the tiny boats around their bases, the maze of pipes and the flash of tools in the sun. But it is only later, after your plane has landed and you take a ferry across the lake and drive down along the fields that you begin to grasp the real meaning of this fantastic development. Venezuela is oil and its richest oil center is the one which runs along Lake Maracaibo.
Production of oil—according to a report published in January 1951—reached an average of more than 1,500,000 barrels a day for the year 1950, topping the record
March-April
technical schools for architecture, ceramics and textiles, vocational schools for agriculture and forestry, and high schools for civil positions.
A new compulsory educational program will become operative when an immediate target of one school for every 2,000 children is reached. The general philosophy of education in Indonesia is to educate children to become good and useful citizens of the Republic and to be constantly ready to give their strength and knowledge to their country.
The basic aims are to inculcate the principles of democracy, freedom, social justice, humanity and cooperation. In addition it is believed necessary to teach general facts relating to the position and requirements of the Indonesian nation, appreciation of Indonesian economics and politics, and faithfulness to Indonesian culture and religion. In winning its battle against illiteracy which now affects 83% of the people, the new Republic is winning an even greater battle, as educated Indonesians will build a country that is economically, politically and culturally secure.
of 1,338,994 barrels established in 1948. Operation of the giant new refineries of the Shell and Creole companies on the Par-aguana peninsula increased the output of refined products. With world demand increasing, petroleum production in 1951 probably will exceed the 1950 levels. Of the
10.000.	000 barrels of oil expected to be produced daily throughout the world in 1951, Venezuela will account for about one-fifth. Oil exports in 1950 brought in 2,600,000,000 bolivars. It was estimated that Venezuela’s income by the end of the year exceeded $500,000,000.
A Flourishing Trade
In addition to petroleum, Venezuela exports coffee and cocoa, cotton and gold. Its exports rose to an all-time high of
3.700.000.	000 bolivars, 10 per cent more than in 1949. Almost all of this was accounted for by petroleum. The United States and the Netherlands West Indies are the major markets. Shipments to the Netherlands West Indies are chiefly crude petroleum for refining and re-export, principally to the United Kingdom and the United States.
Venezuela imports machines, instruments, apparatus, accessories, metals, manufactures, foodstuffs, beverages and textiles. Imports in 1950 were 10 per cent less than 1949. The volume of imports which has made Venezuela one of the principal markets of the world, is expected to continue during 1951, since the country imports most of what it consumes and has the dollars to pay for the purchases.
More than 70 per cent of Venezuela’s imports during 1950 were from the United States. Of course, England, Canada and France supply Venezuelan markets.
Data available in domestic trade for 1950 indicate that retail sales throughout the country were higher than in 1949. The amount of capital invested in business and industry set a record.
Venezuela continued to make progress in manufactures. Local food industries and