4
Deli, one of the finest Moslem Mosques ever built, and one of the outstanding markets of Indonesia.
To the south of Medan is Sumatra's great Toba Lake cupped by craggy mountain ranges, the Batalc Lands and many other tourist attractions. The mountain peaks include the craters of two large volcanoes and several smaller ones, all extinct now. Tobacco fields surround the city and extend for miles in nearly all directions. These fields include the largest tobacco estate in Indonesia.
To the east and west lie even more extensive rubber plantations. Dotted throughout this area are many comparatively small estates and plantations producing tea, fibers and palm oil. To the east are the petroleum wells of Langkat. Thus the city is an important export center. The most northerly terminal airport of the Garuda Indonesian Airways is at Medan. The area has good and regular air service to all airports in Indonesia, to important centers in India, in the Middle East and in Europe, to Singapore, Bangkok and Saigon.
JAVA
The island of Java is the richest, most highly developed, most densely populated and most centrally located of all of the Indonesian Islands. Over 70% of the nation’s total population, amounting to about fifty million people, reside there. Its economic and political importance are very old, and seem to have given impetus to an increasing population which in turn has heightened the island’s economic and political potential.
Java is probably the home of one of the earliest races of mankind, whose 40,000-odd year old remains have been found in sufficient quantity to assure scientists that these people were indigenous to the area. The ancestors of modern Indonesians how-
Pa/v American
Wo rid AfRwxrs Teacher
ever seem to have originated in Southeast Asia, perhaps in southern China, coming down the peninsular and spreading over the Archipelago in successive waves of immigration. Later came the Hindus and still later the Mohammedans.
On Java, the Hindus built their most beautiful monuments, Javanese Sultans erected their residences and the first Dutch rulers established their center of government. There has always been an historical and administrative division between Java, including Madura, and all the other islands which were lumped together as the Outer Territory or Outer Possessions.
Djakarta, on the island of Java, has been the capital of the new nation since December 1949. In the Sixteenth Century, the site was occupied by an important Sudanese port, Sunda Kelapa In time the port fell into the possession of a Javanese Sultan who built a fortress there and changed its name to Djajakerta (meaning Glorious Fortress). Djajakerta became a center of trade with the Portuguese and then with the Dutch. The Dutch established their own trading post at the port and finally seized possession of the entire site. A new township called Batavia was built which served as the headquarters for the Dutch East India Company.
As a result of increased commercial activity the township grew and during the Seventeenth Century, Batavia was the center of trade with the whole Orient. Goods from Persia, India, Japan and from the rest of Indonesia filled its warehouses and its ships. During the next two centuries the power of the city declined and then rose again. Meanwhile the population increased, the area of the town was extended and new suburbs grew. The new Republic has renamed the city, Djakarta,
March-April
and today with a population of 2,500,000 it is the largest port and principal city of Indonesia.
Djakarta’s streets are tree-lined and shady; there are gardens around the government offices; people live where they work if possible; and offices close during the heat of the day.
Some relics of the old days are still to be found. There is the Amsterdam Gate of whitewashed brick and evident Dutch architecture. In the older sections of the town are diamond-paned windows with swinging shutters on whitewashed and gabled houses which look out over the many canals just as they did in the Low Countries of three hundred years ago.
There is an old town hall dating from 1710 and an old Portuguese church built around 1695. The Chinese quarter is large but thickly packed with quaintly built houses crowded together over sometimes surprisingly broad streets and old canals. But this part of the lower town, as it is now called, has seen many changes especially during the last thirty years. It has become the center of Djakarta’s commercial and business world. Many dilapidated houses have made way for trim streamlined buildings and there are great banking and industrial offices common to large cities.
A new harbor to the east of the city has been built which is connected with the Capital by a. good wide road and a double rail track. It has fully equipped wharves and warehouses whose ownership is divided between the port authority and private companies. Halfway between the harbor and the city proper is Kemajoran Airport. Indonesia’s chief means of communication with foreign countries lies in its air services which are destined to become the most important internal mode of transportation as well. Kemajoran, lying next to the city is a regular stop for rest and refueling on the long Australia-England run and an important link between Europe and the Orient generally.
Garuda Indonesian Airways is controlled jointly by the government and KLM, Royal Dutch Airlines (a private enterprise which formerly controlled all internal Indonesian flights). Garuda at present flies an average of more than 15,500 miles per day, carries about 24,000 passengers and 1,200 tons of freight. Plans are now being made for services to neighboring continents. In preparation, airline employees are studying through courses organized by both the Airways and the government.
Djakarta is also the center for other transport systems by sea, road and rail which cover different parts of the Archipelago. In the city itself there are street cars, buses, electric trains, taxis and trucks, horse-drawn carts, foot-pedalled tricycle taxis, and people who carry your market purchases in baskets slung to their backs or on shoulder poles. The city has many first class hotels, movies, a museum, a small but interesting zoo and an aquarium. Sports include tennis, badminton, soccer, fishing and sea or city-pool bathing.
Indonesia’s second most important city, an important industrial area and one of the chief ports of the nation is Surabaya. The area around the city is flat. One of the
(Photo from Black Star)
JAVA — Although one usually thinks of coffee when the name Java is mentioned, this is also a tea-raising center. This photograph was taken on a tea plantation near Bandoeng (or Bandung).