Pan American
World Airways Teacher
7
riage is relatively simple. The bride and groom sit on chairs facing a small Shinto shrine. A white-robed priest waves a tree branch before the couple to chase away evil spirits, chanting the while. Bride and groom then undergo the san-san-kudo (literally, “the three three nine times”), a ceremony in which each takes three ritual sips from each of three ritual sake cups.
Looking at a Japanese town away from the Westernized cities you will have the impression that it seems no more than an oversized toy town. The house itself is built two or three feet above the ground, on piles. Around the house, or part of it, runs a narrow porch which may be opened up by removing the wooden shutters or doors. The rooms within are usually not fixed. They may be altered in size by sliding paper-covered panels. Sometimes the entire becomes one room during the day. Eating takes place anywhere that the trays are set on their low tables. The most important part is where the alcove is. Guests are received here. The Japanese house is very simple and adaptable. There is practically no furniture.
Cleanliness in Japan is a duty and bathing a ritual. Kissing is still considered a pretty dirty business. Before the war kissing scenes were cut out of foreign motion pictures. Even today Japanese actresses require that a small invisible antiseptic piece of gauze be placed over their lips before they indulge in any Western-style kissing scenes. Germconscious Japanese keep wash basins labeled “water” and “disinfectant” in the lobby of the palatial Tokyo building that houses Japan’s equivalent to the Congressional Library in Washington, D. C. A sign directs all comers to purify their hands before they read.
Peasants Now Own Their Farms
Today for the first time after centuries of renting their farms, millions of Japanese farmers own the land they till. They had been paying rentals averaging half the crop. Some landlords used to charge ingenious extras, such as a fee for the essential privilege of walking on the footpaths between flooded rice fields. The land reform which the occupation effected was one of its most successful achievements. At the end of World War II half of Japan’s cultivated land was owned by slightly more than 7 per cent of the farmers. Almost 70 per cent of the farming population were either tenants or part tenants and virtually unable to purchase land outright.
In December, 1945, General MacArthur directed the Japanese Government to see that “those who till the soil of Japan shall have a more equal opportunity to enjoy the
fruits of their labor.” All absentee landlords were forced to sell their lands to the government. Resident landlords, besides being limited in the amount of land they could own, were forced to sell all but two and one half acres of tenant cultivated land. The government arranged to compensate the landlords for the confiscated land, although at a price lower than it was worth.
By 1951 there were only 1,670,000 acres of land operated by tenants, as compared with 6,300,000 before the war. The land reform was a great step towards creating a sound and satisfied farm population, and the one least likely to be interfered with by succeeding Japanese governments.
“Sayonara”
“Sayonara” may be the last Japanese word ringing in your ears before leaving Japan. It means literally, “Since it must be so.” In her North to the Orient published some 18 years ago, Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh wrote, “Unlike the Auf Wiedersehens and Au revoirs, Sayonara does not try to cheat itself by any bravado ‘Till we meet again’, any sedative to postpone the pain of separation. It does not evade the issue like the sturdy blinking Farewell. Farewell is a
father’s good-bye....It is hope and faith.
But it passes over the significance of the moment; of parting it says nothing. It hides the emotion. It says too little. While Good-bye (“God be with you”) and Adios say too much. They try to bridge the distance, almost to deny it. Good-bye is a prayer, a ringing cry... But Sayonara says
neither too much nor too little. It is a simple acceptance of fact. All understanding of life lies in its limits. But it says nothing. It is really the unspoken good-bye, the pressure of a hand, ‘Sayonara’.”
Spring and fall are the seasons of Japan. The Japanese have made a cult of them, deeper than the natural fascination which other peoples feel for the times of change. In April and May the millions go out, as if driven, to watch the white of the opening cherry blossoms creep northward along their hills. In October the maple leaves are a brighter crimson than anywhere else in the world. You, too, can experience the same excitement, the same feeling of discovering something new in the old traditions of Japan. Four centuries ago St. Francis Xavier said of the Japanese, “These people are the delight of my heart.” In 1612, the Spanish Governor of the Philippines wrote, “The streets and open places of Yefo (Tokyo today) are so very handsome, so clean and well kept that it might be imagined no person walked on them.” And the Captain of H.M.S. Samarang declared after his visit to Japan in 1845, “The gentlemen of Japan were most polite and courteous, conducting themselves with refined and polished urbanity.” The friendliness of the Japanese has not changed as can be attested by thousands of Americans who have just returned from Japan. The traditional courtesy is everywhere ready to welcome you. You will sense it in their gentle ohayo gozai-mas (good morning), ikaga desu (how are you) and in their Sayonara.