Pan Amer rca ht
World A/rrafs Trac/lfr
ii
canals, form a net-work of waterways.
I Many factories and plants are built adjacent 'o these rivers and canals which allow for cheap transportation. Major exports of Osaka are textiles and their products, steel and iron, machinery, chemical goods, oil and non-metals. These goods are exported to North, Central and South America, Indonesia, Pakistan, India, Thailand, Hongkong, the United Kingdom and Australia. Raw materials such as cotton, wool, ore and coal are imported from North and South America, India, Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Indo-China and Africa. Almost all port facilities were severely damaged by the Pacific War, but most of them have been completely recovered and improvements have been made. Thus Osaka, is making steady strides towards becoming a principal trading center of Japan.
Other Centers
Lying midway between the Yokohama -Tokyo and Osaka-Kobe areas is Nagoya, backed by the richest hinterland of all the commercial and industrial metropolises in Japan. The area is fairly rich in mineral resources. With the “Japanese Alps” to the north, Nagoya is blessed with plenty of ^ydro-electric power plus industrial water. UVith a population of over 10,000,000 it has a plentiful labor supply. Its spacious valley is one of the greatest granaries of the country. Manufacturing industries of almost every description have developed in the region including textiles, porcelain and pottery, machinery and wood processing. There are cotton spinning and cotton textile mills in addition to many synthetic fiber mills. The best known of all goods produced in the Nagoya region is porcelain which has attained world renown. Fully 70% of Japan’s pottery and porcelain is produced in the region. Wheat and barley top imports flowing into Nagoya from the United States, Canada and Australia. Wool ranks next from Australia, Argentina and the Union of South Africa. Rice ranks third from Siam, Egypt, Burma and Brazil. Ranking fourth is raw cotton from Mexico, Argentina, Brazil, Pakistan and the United States. Sugar ranks fifth coming from Cuba and Formosa.
Shimizu, lying 103 miles west of Tokyo and 122 miles east of Nagoya is one of the most unique cities of Japan. Towering immediately behind it is the matchless peak of puji. The peak’s perfect conal shape capped with perpetual snow and ice against a blue sky is practically a trade-mark of Japan. The surrounding region abounds in historic relics and places of note. Like all commercial cities, Shimizu saw negligible activities immediately after V-J Day, but as the years
have passed the city has grown steadily in importance. Overseas trade in particular has experienced great increases, almost tripling prewar showings. Shimizu and its vicinity produce aluminum ingots, canned goods, refined oil, plywood, paper, lacquer-ware and green tea. A miniature California, the area produces mandarins and farm products of almost every description. The region immediately flanking the vicinity has spinning, lumbering and sericultural activities. It abounds in agricultural forestry products of all descriptions. Canning of mandarins and tuna are among the most important of the city’s activities. Shimizu’s exports include aluminum ingots to North and South America, Africa and Europe ; and plywood to Australia, the United Kingdom, the United States and Belgium ; Shimizu’s East Asia Fuel Company has entered into a working agreement with the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company of the United States, whereby the American concern supplies technical assistance in the making of gasoline, kerosene, gas oil, various lubricating oils, fuel oils and asphalt. The city also makes soybean oils for food and industrial purposes and turns out fat-removed soybean cakes as fodder, fertilizer, or for industrial purposes and soybean glue. It is one of the leading vegetable oil makers of Japan.
As is evident by the preceding discussion, most of Japan’s industries and business activities are concentrated in three major areas on the Island of Honshu. The oldest is the Osaka-Kobe area, one of most thick-
ly settled in the world, leading in cotton textiles and heavy industries. The Tokyo-Yokohama district has shipyards and greatly diversified industries carried on mostly in small establishments. In between is the Nagoya industrial area which produces chinaware, lacquerware, musical instruments and other famous Japanese products, but which has modern industries as well, including those turning out cotton and woolen goods and machinery. Following the Second World War, Japan under the Allied Occupation prepared the ground for the growth of democratic institutions by the enactment of a Bill of Rights, universal suffrage including the women’s vote, and a new constitution. Agricultural reforms made possible land ownership by the small farmers who are the foundation of the Japanese economy. Because of the loss of its colonial empire, the destruction of capital and the present political situation which divides the world into two camps depriving Japan of some of its natural markets, that nation will have to depend more than ever on the efficiency of its labor and improvement of its industrial plant to maintain an adequate economic level for its people.
If Japan meets these challenges successfully its people can look forward hopefully to the future. The United States also has a vital interest in the outcome of Japan’s efforts. The future of both countries is interwoven whether we like it or not. Cooperation and understanding form the only solution.