Pan American World Airways Teacher
May, 1953
AIRPORT INSTITUTES INDOCTRINATE TEACHERS IN AIR AGE EDUCATION
by George Gardner
If experience is the best teacher, there are several thousand teachers across the country who have had the best instruction in aviation education that could be had through planned visits to airports and flight experience in air line (or other) aircraft.
This is being accomplished through the ever increasingly popular Airport Institutes, like those which have been staged in recent years in New York, Chicago, San Francisco, Denver, Detroit, Boston, Lincoln, Omaha, and many other cities.
Indoctrination probably is a better term for what is being achieved by these institutes, as they normally are one day affairs, and teachers must of necesshy follow through with further study and research— ^ither on their own, or in air age work shops, ™o get the full aviation background needed to bring aviation concepts intelligently into geography, social studies, science, language and other classes. It should be added that the same indoctrination and further study is of great value to the administrators who are sincerely interested in having aviation brought into its appropriate place in the curriculum.
The primary interest of educators in aviation is to make certain that it receives appropriate attention in any subject field that is affected by flying. This is the attitude of the National Aviation Education Council, and of teachers, colleges and school administrators almost unanimously. There is a place for courses in aviation for those students with special interests, but for the entire student body, integration is what is called for, with aviation education as an effective part.
To show how the airport institute helps toward that desired end, the series of institutes now being carried on for the public schools of New York City will be taken as an example. The New York institutes have been selected for this purpose not because they are superior to any others, but simply because this writer has participated in nearly all of them, and first hand experience is just as efficacious for reporting as it is for learning.
I The New York project originated in an expression of interest and request for cooperation by Dr. William H. Bristow, Director of the Bureau of Curriculum of the New York City schools. Impetus was gained through the support of the National Air Transport Coordinating Committee, the purpose of which is to acquaint the public with the manner of the operation of air
AIRPORT INSTITUTE — Social Studies Teachers from New York City (with their children) as they are about to embark on their flight experience at one of the New York City Institutes.
lines, with the service they render and the problems they have.
The New York institutes have been conducted on a cooperative basis by the educational specialists of the Civil Aeronautics Administration, the Port of New York Authority, Eastern Air Lines, Pan American World Airways, Trans World Airlines and United Air Lines.
The foregoing recital of “credits” may make dull reading, but is presented in full because if you have yet to undertake airport institutes in your own city the list should
be suggestive as to sources to which you may apply for assistance.
Well, then, what happens at an airport institute?
The first problem in New York, as is necessarily the case in any large city, is to get the participants assembled.
Most of the New York City institutes have been held for groups ranging from SO to 120 drawn from many different schools. Frequently all five boroughs have been represented. Most of the institutes have been (Continued on page 2)