14
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant
Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
(1)	Island Nation, 20 min., Sound— United World Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York.
Living is difficult in an area where farmland and other resources are limited. Japan is trying to overcome some of the difficulties of a densely populated country by working hard and by developing industries.
(2)	Japanese Family, 23 min., Sound— International Film Foundation, 1600 Broadway, New York
Produced by Julien Bryan, this film tells the story of the Kawai family, silk-weavers of Kyoto, Japan. We see them at work at their looms, preparing meals, visiting the park, and preparing to observe a Japanese New Year’s celebration. The story is accompanied by authentic Japanese music performed on native instruments.
(3)	Japan: The Land and the People, 11 min., Sound—Coronet Films, Coronet Bldg., Chicago, 111.
How 83 million people support themselves in a mountainous island nation, small in area, with little arable land, is shown in this film. It includes also the cultivation of rice, tea, silkworms, and timber, and the development of modern industries in Japan’s post-World War II era.
(4)	Creative Art In Japan, 20 min., Color—Brandon Films, Inc., 200 W. 57th Street, New York.
Robert Gardner’s uniquely integrated film reveals aspects of the art of Japan as original works and not as reflections of art of other nations. Commentary is based on early poetic and historical texts. Music from various periods is played by Japanese string musicians.
(5)	Rice Farming in Japan, 12 min., color—University of Michigan, A-V Center, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
This film was photographed in Japan and tells the complete story of rice, the staple food of the Orient. The fascinating processes of rice planting, cultivating, harvesting, and cooking are shown in authentic detail.
Pan American
Won id Afgmrs Teacher
This film will be especially useful in social studies and geography classes and on all levels from later elementary through adult.
(6)	Japan and Democracy, 18 min., Sound—McGraw-Hill Book Co., Text Film Division, 330 W. 42nd Street, New York.
Produced by the March of Time, this film presents an account of life in occupied Japan, of the United States administration there, and the problems now confronting the Japanese government.
(7)	Edition Takya, 9 min., Sound— United World Government Films, 1445 Park Avenue, New York.
Produced by the United States Army, this film tells the story of the free press in Japan, in which the Yomiuri, a typical Japanese newspaper, is featured. Coverage of the Diet (Japan’s governing body), sports, and foreign news are shown.
(8)	Letter to a Friend, 20 min., Sound— United World Government Films.
This film was produced by the United States Army for civilian use in Japan. It describes the establishment of a “pen-pals” club in Japan in order that Japanese boys and girls may correspond directly with boys and girls of their own age in the United States.
%
(9)	Picturesque Japan, 20 min., Sound —Color—Japanese Govt. Overseas Agency, 60 E. 42nd St., New York.
This film will prove of interest to people who plan to tour Japan, since it highlights the picturesque spots one can visit.
Filmstrips
(1)	A Visit to Japan—Color—46 frames Audio-Visual Division, Popular Science Publishing Co., 353 Fourth Avenue, New York.
The filmstrip begins with a map to show location and a sequence on our country’s relation to Japan in recent years. We then go to' Tokyo to visit shops, theatres, homes, industries and to the country to visit rice farms, tea groves and silkworm raisers. Scenes of fishing, pearl diving as well as a visit to a Japanese school are included.
(2)	Japan—The Land and its People— Color, 43 frames, Society for Visual Education, Chicago, 111.
Presents the economic, social and political activity of Japan in its role as an important
Asiatic power. Physical features of the country are presented in especially prepar T maps, some of which compare Japan witlr the United States.
(3)	Japan—Life and Industries of the People—45 frames, Society for Visual Education, Chicago, 111.
The various industries are discussed in some detail, giving insight into the lives of the Japanese. Both maps and photographs are used.
(4)	The New Face of Japan—47 frames, New York Times, Times Square, New York.
Produced in 1949, the filmstrip shows the steps taken by the Occupation forces to make Japan democratic. It discusses economic difficulties, dependability of Japan as a future ally, and leads up to> the question of when we will sign a peace treaty and withdraw our occupation forces.
(5)	Japan: Land and People—Color— 65 frames. Visual Education Services.
A visit to the Japan of today (1950) — the country, the people, work, dress, customs and religion. Wartime destruction is shown, but the total effect is one leading to interest and good-will.
(6)	Let’s See Japan—Color—60 frames Visual Education Services.
A journey to Japan, including scenes of the country and people. Agriculture, other industries, war damage, and the religions of the people are pictured.
ADDITIONAL BIBLIOGRAPHY
Over a Bamboo Fence, Brown, Morrow Voice of Asia, Michener, Random House Geography of World Peoples, McConnell, Rand McNally
Japanese Children (Film Story Books), O’Donnell, Row, Peterson Five Gentlemen of Japan, Gibney
Articles
Touring Japan by Bicycle, New York Times March 29, 1953
The Best From Japan, New York Times January 25, 1953
Japan Is A Fast Changing Nation,
The Young Citizen, March 3, 1952 Japan Tries to Increase Trade,
Weekly News Review, May 26, 1952 Japan’s Open Door Festival,
The Young Citizen, March 30, 1953
For Further Information
Japan Travel Information Office, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20.