6
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
but in the end it may perish of the shocks of tall Americans bumping their heads on the low doors. The Imperial possesses a wonderful fascination. A comfortable room there with Western beds, good hot water, and steam heat costs $10 a day for two without meals. The service is almost as quick as electricity.
Food is comparatively inexpensive. A Western-style luncheon in the Imperial's dining room with an entree of fish or steak costs about $1.50. The hotel’s Sukiyaki Room is one of the best in town. You must remove your shoes at the door and prepare yourself for a bowing, smiling greeting from the full corps of waitresses done up in colorful kimonos tied with an obi. Each party is ushered into a separate alcove divided by screens, the diners squatting on cushions around a lacquered table two feet high. Dinner begins with wet, hot washings scented with an Oriental fragrance. You wipe your hands, pass the hot cloth over your face and deposit it back in its wicker container. It is an old Eastern custom practiced in most restaurants and hotels. Now that you are clean, one of the kimono ladies kneels before you and cooks dinner on a hot plate.
Though sukiyaki and tempura are most popular among visitors, Japan specializes in many other delicacies. Dinner in any good restaurant may start with the usual fried prawns to be followed by fried white fish, fried watercress, fried gingko nuts, fried green peppers, fried sea eels, and fried cuttle-fish, which are cousins of octopus. At this point everything is fried except the customers, so comes now sake (rice wine) in tiny cups followed by beer in big tumblers. Presently a lacquered bowl arrives filled with soybean soup and drowned clams, a signal that the meal is coming to an end. There is a salad of ginger, Chinese cabbage, and pickled radish. Quite a dinner for you, to be sure. Then everyone retires to another private room again for wash cloths and green tea.
You may repeat the same ritual in practically every one of the cities of Japan. You can reach them easily by rail or bus and cover as a matter of fact the whole country in a short period.
KYOTO with a population of more than 1,000,000, is the depository of Japan’s ancient art treasures and cultural heritage. Historically, Kyoto was the capital of Japan for more than ten centuries. Today, though modernized considerably, the city still retains many of its ancient traditions. The “classic city”—as it is called—preserves its Buddhist temples, Shinto shrines and historic spots which give evidence of its
glorious bygone days. . The old Imperial Palace, the Higashi Honganji Temple, the Heian Shrine, dedicated to the founder of Kyoto, gardens centuries old—everything offers its exotic enchantment.
OSAKA, about 2,000,000 population, a large commercial and manufacturing metropolis, is the second largest city in Japan. Though it is served by surface and subway lines and crossed by a fine network of canals, castles and shrines can be seen next to modern shops, restaurants, tea-houses and theaters.
NAGOYA, about 1,000,000 population, between Tokyo and Osaka, is the center of the pottery, porcelain and cloisonne industries. A visit to the Noritake chinaware factory will acquaint you with the methods of making dinner sets for export.
YOKOHAMA, about 1,000,000 population, was an obscure fishing village when Commodore Perry brought his fleet of “Black Ships” to the port in 1854. As the years passed, Yokohama grew in importance until it became one of the biggest ports in the Far East. Today, its harbor, protected by breakwaters 9,400 feet long, has quays and piers with a mooring capacity for 21 ocean liners, and docks capable of accommodating 33 vessels. Its Sankey-en Garden, covering 40 acres of land along the seashore, comprising a range of hills and valleys, is unique. The three-story pagoda standing there is said to be more than 500 years old.
Something Japanese
There is very little waste in Japan. An American traveler reports that small children pick up carpenters’ shavings and take them home to their parents. Unburned bits of coal are snatched from factory cinder-piles. Tree stumps are scarcely visible, because Japanese woodmen painstakingly cut so close to the roots. Newspapers are seldom thrown away. Paper and string from packages are saved—not by especially frugal people, but by all the people—because all Japanese are frugal. Frugality is in fact a bond among them.
Visitors in Japan are often puzzled by the lack of Good Samaritans. If a person has an accident on a crowded street, few of his fellow-citizens will rush to give help. Their diffidence is not cruelty or callousness. It simply means not adding another complicated relationship to their already burdened lives. For a Japanese Good Samaritan cannot solely bind up the injured man’s wounds and go away. He automatically assumes a moral responsibility—and sometimes a legal one—and a relationship of favor and counter favor with the victim, which may last for years or never end.
The Japanese say that of the three important events in lifetime, birth, marriage and death, man can have much to do with only one and that is marriage. The wedding is, of course, an enormously important event. Getting ready for it takes time and money and much ceremony. But the actual mar-