PA/V AtfFfffCA/V
World Airways Teacher
15
PAA LOAD EVENT, A CONTEST FOR MODEL AIRPLANES FLYING WITH PAY LOAD
• .............................. .............................
PAA Load Event is a weight carrying contest for gas powered free flight model airplanes.
The contest was originated by Pan American World Airways in 1948, and now is sponsored annually in approximately twenty important model airplane contests in the United States, including the National Championships, the Mirror Model Flying Fair in New York, the Junior Air Races in Cleveland and others.
r Many an aeronautical engineer and many an air line captain had his introduction to the science of aerodynamics through model airplane building and flying activity. In fact, there is reason to believe that at least ninety per cent of aviation executives at some time or other engaged in model building and flying. And it seems likely that almost every teen age boy today is exposed to model activity in greater or lesser degree.
The objective of PAA Load Event is to provide a similarity between modeling and full scale aviation by requiring that the model carry pay load, just as a real airplane carries passengers, mail and cargo, or other load.
For the model airplane, the pay load is a dummy of specified size and weight. Mr. Dummy usually is constructed of balso wood, weighted with lead, but he may be of any material chosen by the modeler if his size and weight meet requirements. The contest consists of operating the model with its dummy aboard in accordance with the Academy of Model Aeronautics rules governing free flight competition. The winner is the contestant achieving the greatest elapsed flight time total for three qualifying flights.
Information regarding PAA Load Event, including the rules of competition, is available in a booklet which may be obtained by writing to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza 4siorth, Long Island City 1, N. Y. A schedule of sponsored PAA Load Events will be included with the booklet.
The entire field of model aviation comprises a variety of categories ranging from hand flipped gliders to elaborate gas-powered models controlled by radio transmitters. The activity is carried on to a great
extent by clubs which function independently, or with the sponsorship of civic groups —notably the Exchange Clubs.
It also has an appropriate place in a school’s aviation education program. As a rule it exists as an extra-curriculum club activity, and it seems to fit into school programs better on that basis, when the more elaborate types of model, requiring 25, or 50 or 75 hours of construction time are in-
volved. However, construction of simpler types of models often is included in aviation education workshops for teachers, and similar activities are introduced by teachers to their classes when it is desired to illustrate aerodynamic principles.
The clearing house for information about model aviation is the Academy of Model Aeronautics, 1025 Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C.
MODEL TEAM —John Propeck of Van Nuys, Calif, (with glasses) and his brother Tim were a team entry at the 1952 National Championship Model Airplane Contest in PAA Load Event. Father (John J. Propeck, Sr.) was their official helper.