4
Pa/v Atterfca N
World A/rhaes
SEATTLE
PORTLAND.
SAN FRANCISCO
TOKYO
HONOLULU
WAKE ISLAND
HAWAIIAN ISLANDS
JAPAN
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	Problem:
Can we account for the statement that
Japan is a fast changing- nation?
1.1	Reasons for Selection:
1.	Japan has been in the news so much in recent years.
2.	Many of the children have brothers, fathers, or other relatives who spent some time in Japan.
3.	Crown Prince Akihito is visiting the United States.
4.	There has been a great increase of trade between the United States and Japan.
5.	The 100th anniversary of Japan’s Open-Door Policy has just been celebrated.
6.	So many changes have taken place in this country since World War II.
7.	Some student may have visited Washington, D. C. during cherry blossom time.
8.	Not too much is known of Japan since so much emphasis in the past has been on the study of China.
2. Probable Duration:—three weeks.
3.	Launching the Unit:
3.1	Approach:
1.	News clippings of the visit of the Crown Prince might be discussed.
2.	A discussion of the “occupation” under MacArthur and Ridgway would be a good way to get started
3.	Stories of Commander Perry’s landing in Japan and the start of the Open-Door policy.
4.	Have the children bring in some of the items they have at home which came from Japan.
5.	Cherry blossom time makes one think of Japan. Why?
6.	Books about Japan (refer to Bibliography).
7.	Map work. Location of Japan and discussion of implications of this location
8.	Visual Aids—a movie on Japan.
3.2	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	Why is Japan called “The land of the Rising Sun?”
2.	Why must Japan look for new places to trade?
3.	What is new and interesting about the culture of Japan?
4.	What can we find out about the many interesting places to visit in Japan?-
5.	How did the open-door policy change life in Japan?
6.	How has the United States “occupation” changed life in Japan?
7.	How will the “Air-Age” continue to change life in Japan?
4.	Expected Outcomes:
4.1 Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:—Location of Japan and implications of this location; islands, important products, colorful festivals, many customs, largest cities, comparison of old and new in cities, customs, trade, etc.; education, some facts about the language, changes in feelings toward the emperor, Fujiyama, the place it has in Japanese history; Japan’s part in World War II, religion, architecture, population, compared with the area of the country; main food and food problems, relations with the United States. (This Social Studies material will be found in this issue.)
2.	Language Arts:—new words. The meanings are listed on the last page. It will also be interesting to include many Japanese words which have become familiar such as: pagoda, hari-kari, obi, suki-yaki, tempura, sake, sampan, say-onora, tofu.
Spelling—some of the words which come up in work on the unit. Comparison of the Japanese alphabet and ours, position of letters (or characters) on the page etc.
Oral communication—giving and sharing of information, inter-
viewing people who have been to Japan, calling for information, dramatizing or explaining many of the customs and festivals, telling about a movie or strip film, working with committees and the class as a whole, giving a book review, describing a picture.
Written communication—let t e r s asking for information, planning a trip to Japan, writing about a stay with a Japanese family, a news reporter’s account of a festival, an account after seeing Fujiyama, writing about a day with a tea picker, describing a Japanese home and telling about entering the house, being seated, eating, sleeping, etc., describing a visit to a Japanese school. (Many of the items listed for oral communication can be written and vice versa.)
Penmanship—difference between our letters and Japanese characters. Japanese child r e n use brushes on rice paper. This allows for no corrections and no erasures. The Japanese children must think carefully before they write. Their work is always neat. They are proud of what they write. What Japanese characteristics would it be good for us to adopt?
Literature—The Japanese have contributed no great literature. They were influenced by Chinese culture. Tanka is a Japanese poem. Hohku, a shorter form. Lady Murasaki Shikibu wrote: “The Tale of Genji” which is known as the world’s oldest novel. They give “Noh” plays. Stories about Japan are listed in the bibliography in this issue.
3. Science:—study how rice and tea are grown; study about the mulberry tree. Why are there few navigable rivers in Japan? What is an island climate? It would be interesting to know more about the many valleys, the volcanoes, the study of pearls, the uses of bamboo, uses of soybeans, the abundance of flowers, the seasons, the methods of farming. Compare the modern methods of textile manufacturing to the older methods of farming. What is the reason for this difference? Why are buildings in Japan built so low? Many children have Japanese Gardens at home. Purchase the plants and grow one in class. Study Japanese flower arrangements.
(Continued on page 12)