Pam America/v
2	World Alrwaye Teacher
Pah American World Alrhays Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
AIRPORT INSTITUTES
(Continued from page 1)
at the New York International Airport— Idlewild; some at LaGuardia Airport. The members mostly arrive in groups traveling in somebody’s automobile.
For a Saturday institute the reporting time is 9 a.m. If the institute is set for afternoon after school, the reporting time is 3:30 p.m., which, of course, means that authorization must be had for skipping the last school period. In New York City the afternoon after school schedule appears to be most popular with participants, probably because there are so many commuters who like to keep weekends free for activities at home. A Saturday institute generally runs through to about two or three p.m.—the late afternoon institute breaks up about 8 or 9 p.m.
In either case, the first stop is the Federal Building at Idlewild, which is the regional headquarters of the Civil Aeronautics Administration. Participants assemble in one of the large conference rooms, and usually have an opportunity to meet some of the ranking officials of CAA, the Port Authority and the air lines.
This is followed by a briefing presented by one speaker who explains just what aviation does for us in this Air Age in which we live, and suggests how this information may be presented in the class room. The person who draws this assignment probably has the most rugged job there is in the whole aviation education field. He has at most an hour to present the subject, and it sometimes is necessary to limit him to forty-five or even thirty minutes. Within this brief period he must describe the work of the scheduled air lines, the other commercial operators who carry on such diversified activities as charter flying, crop dusting and planting, forest patrol, search and rescue, flight instruction and dozens of other activities, military aviation and manufacturing, and then try to make some sense in the matter of interpreting these things to students in all grade levels. With so comprehensive a subject to cover, this person naturally has to deal in generalities, and it is really his function to give an introduction, or overview, and to do this so skillfully that his listeners will be inspired to continue afterward with their own investigations.
Upon the termination of the briefing session, the institute splits up into small groups for a tour of the airport. At Idlewild the groups are transported from one place to
another on the airport in chartered buses, a procedure that is necessary because of the size of the airport, the volume of ground traffic there, the distances between the points that are to be visited and the fact that parts of the route are through restricted areas. At other locations it has been found feasible for the groups to walk from one area to another, or to use their own cars—-any one planning an institute has to fit his solution of this transportation problem to the circumstances in which he is working.
The airport tour for a New York Institute includes four, and some times five special areas. Two of these are in the control tower. The communications center on a lower level of the tower, and the control room itself at the very top—the latter being the glass enclosed high vantage point which is a familiar sight to any one who pays a visit to an airport, and in which are stationed the operators who coordinate the movements of airplanes to and away from the runways.
The airport tour also includes a visit to the area in which customs, immigration and public health officers carry out their functions. This phase, of course, is available only at gateway cities where aircraft depart for and arrive from foreign countries. The tour includes, too-, a visit to one of the ticket counters for an explanation of reservations, ticketing and passenger service procedures. The fifth phase included whenever possible is a demonstration of helicopter flight, usually by one of the Port Authority helicopters. This is important to an understanding of New York International Airport, because Idlewild now is linked with other airports in the New York area by a helicopter service for transfer of mail which eventually will be expanded to transfer of passengers as well.
An airport institute can well include many other phases of the airport’s operation. The New York institutes have followed the pattern just described because that is all that can be crammed into the available time. Elsewhere such operations as cargo handling, servicing of aircraft, the flight kitchen, the weather bureau, aircraft dispatching, and training classes are included. All are interesting and instructive, and as many as possible should be made a part of the program, but always with regard for the fact that if too much is attempted in one session the saturation point will be passed and impressions will get blurred.
The various phases may be taken in any order. In the New York Institutes the usual pattern is for four or five groups to make the four or five stops in four or five different sequences. One group is at ticketing while the other is in the control tower etc. etc. The group then reassembles in committee of the whole for flight experience.
It is possible to have an airport institute without having a flight for the participants, but it isn’t recommended. The flight gives meaning and depth to the whole procedure, and fixes the experience in the minds of the institute members in a manner they cannot possibly forget. For the New York institutes, airplanes are supplied in rotation by the participating airlines, i.e., Pan American World Airways, United Air Lines,
forty-
\ n c*	1
Eastern Air Lines and Trans World Air Lines.
The flight normally is of minutes to an hour in duration. The air' liner usually takes a course northward to the vicinity of George Washington Bridge, crosses to the New Jersey side, proceeds southward past the Statue of Liberty to .Sandy Hook, then along the south shore of Long Island and northward to Idlewild. However, this is not a magic formula—if weather and visibility conditions make some other route more attractive, the pilot takes it. What is important is that the members of the group have a running description of what is going on during the flight. The captain or some one else is talking to the passengers over the public address system most of the time during the entire operation.
This program of institutes in New York City has been conducted for ten different groups, as this report is written. The first was for members of New York City’s Curriculum Bureau—the Curriculum Assistants from the five boroughs. Subsequent institutes have been held for various groups such as social studies teachers, and there was one for student teachers from Queens College. The approach was to set up an institute for a group wherever the interest existed. The ten institutes have included close to 1,000 teachers.
A somewhat different approach was used in Chicago some four years ago when a series of institutes was scheduled every Saturday for ten weeks, with 120 teachers, for each institute. The first group to attend^ was headed by Superintendent of Schools Herold C. Hunt, and consisted entirely of administrative people. Thereafter, the participants were chosen on a basis of two teachers from a school, with two alternates —if the assigned teacher was ill or for some other reason could not attend, the alternate stepped in. Very few alternates had an opportunity to exercise their secondary options.
This approach has the advantage of carrying the information into more places on a more methodical basis. But this one is not a magic formula either. The plans for an institute must fit the circumstances.
There is one thing about an airport institute that does come close to being a magic formula, and that is the selection of a tireless and conscientious coordinator. For a project like that in New York, with a dozen or more persons contributing time and effort, one hesitates to name names, but one does so anyway. Tbe coordinator from the school system has been Mrs. Eugenie Nadelman, Curriculum Assistant in Queens. If you are planning an airport institute, or a series of them, you’ll need a Mrs. Nadelman.
As was mentioned at the outset, the logical followup is an air age workshop—either a summer workshop extending over several days, or even weeks, or a school term class or workshop in 10 or 12 weekly sessions. Opportunities to study aviation education in j this manner are available in many cities. Lack of space makes it impossible to discuss them here, and those interested might well communicate with the Aviation Education Staff, Civil Aeronautics Administration, Washington, D. C. or with the Aviation Educationist in any regional C.A.A. office.