Pa/v American
World Alrhave Teacher	s
JAPAN
by Enrique Portes
The Goddess of the Sun let fall four drops of dew from her jeweled spear into the sea, and these drops of dew became the islands of Japan. It is an old legend—and a beautiful one.
The four islands have names that are easy and tuneful to the western ear: Hokkaido, Kyushu, Honshu and Shikoku, but there are more than 4,000 tiny islands. If you contrast Japan with the vast stretches of our own country or compare it with other geographical giants like Russia or China, you are prone to overemphasize the smallness of Japan. Yet this country is slightly larger than the British Isles or Italy, and like Italy, Japan is a mountainous country with towering peaks and jumbled hills. The Japanese call their land Nippon—“Land of the Rising Sun”.
The Japanese coast is deeply indented; its coast line measures over 17,000 miles. Few places are far removed from the mountains or really distant from the sea. The combination of rugged coast line and precipitous mountainsides makes of Japan one of the beauty spots of the world. But it leaves little land for the Japanese farmer, who has only about 25 per cent of the land surface for cultivation. As a result, the Japanese are one of the greatest seafaring people in the world.
Geography has played a leading role in Japanese history. The archipelago lies off the mainland of Asia just as the British Isles lie off the edge of Europe. England at its nearest point is only some 20 miles from Europe; Japan is separated from the southern tip of Korea by over 100 miles of rough sea. This insular position has given a special character to Japanese life. For many centuries Japan was able to keep out of the main current of continental life and thus to1 protect its own individuality.
The Japanese islands, as we have said, are really mountain tops peeping up through the sea. But they are more than ordinary mountain tops. They are volcanic ones— two hundred of them actually volcanoes, and fifty of these active. The most beautiful and celebrated of these peaks is Fujiyama. It rises not far from Tokyo and towers two and a half miles above the surrounding countryside. To see this perfect cone of snow appearing suddenly above a bank of clouds as you arrive in Tokyo is to feel that one is seeing a miracle.
Japan is no longer a remote country. The development of air travel has brought Nippon right next door to your home town. Pan American World Airways has contributed considerably to this achievement. The Japanese Tourist Office in New York will tell you that Japan is unrivaled for the tourist, each month and each season offering its particular attraction. “In January and February,” they’ll tell you, “skiing and skating are in full swing at many mountains and hotspring resorts in the northern districts,
KYOTO — Visitors to Japan pause in front of the Heian Shrine Building.
while in the southern part it is usually pleasant because of- the brilliant sunshine and blue skies which favor this season. The spring months of March, April and May are gay with the world-famed cherry-blossoms, azaleas, peonies, wisterias and countless other blossoms. After the rice-planting season, June to early July, comes summer, which is ideal for mountaineering, seabathing, boating and other outdoor sports. In the fall, from September to November, the gorgeous tinted foliage, the chrysanthemum in bloom and the crisp air offer the tourist constant lures. The Japanese, lovers of flowers, never fail to stress the loveliness of flowers in their advertising.
Cities with Smiles
Tokyo, on the River Sumida, has a population of over six million. It is particularly fascinating to visitors because of its happy ability to blend the East and the West, the old and the new in an unusual fashion. Side by side with the bustling activities of its business section of imposing Western style buildings, there exists in the city the old ways of life to which people of the quiet downtown residential quarters still adhere. There you’ll find still alive the traditional festivities, the beauty of landscape gardens, and the exotic picture of vermilion pagodas looming over the house-tops.
The Imperial Palace is, of course, one of Tokyo’s main attractions. The inner enclosure of some 250 acres, is surrounded by a series of willow-fringed moats. Though it is not open to the public every day you may be allowed as far as the end of the first bridge which is called “Megane-bashi”. The Diet building stands on an eminence to the southwest of the Palace grounds. It is here where Parliament meets.
Huge lanterns daubed with bright colors
dangle from every restaurant and shop. Every eating place hangs out a curtain at eye level so you just can’t manage to see who is inside. If you look to the sky for solace you will find it filled with helium balloons trailing long tails printed with advertising.
In Tokyo you will see apples as large as grapefruits, white radishes as long as French breads, and the carrots almost as long as that. The persimmons look like tomatoes, and they are eaten here either before they are ripe or after they have been hung on strings and become dry. You may have the unusual experience of walking into a counterpart of a delicatessen without being able to identify one single item except a displaced box of Ritz Crackers.
In Tokyo for one thing there are few traffic lights, fewer traffic policemen, and a little disorder. A man has to be nimble. A dazzled tourist having just gotten caught in the revolving door of his hotel which works in the reverse of ours, emerges on the street to find the traffic running left-hand, or English style.
When it comes to eating and sleeping you can have it local or Western. Most visitors live Western and dabble in Eastern. It is infinitely cheaper to live like a Japanese, but sleeping on the floor and eating seaweed and raw fish gets to be a little rough for a man on vacation. Since the occupation ended last spring virtually all hotels have been turned back to their original owners and are operating again on a straight civilian basis.
Tokyo’s famous Imperial Hotel has become again a nesting place for some of the most fascinating guests assembled there. It is a low, squat, somehow Oriental-looking building designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in the Twenties as an earthquake-proof hotel. It did indeed resist the quake of 1923,