Pan American
World Airways Teacher
PERU
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM : Why is Peru called “treasure land of legend, art and culture”?
II.	OBJECTIVES:
1.	To learn more about Peru and its relationship to the United States.
2.	To find out how the inhabitants of Peru have overcome disadvantages of variable topography, varied climate and lack of finances.
3.	To realize how air transportation is helping to develop hitherto undeveloped lands.
4.	To become acquainted with some important persons in Peruvian history and Peruvian art and literature.
5.	To find out more about the natural resources of Peru and the products which it furnishes to the rest of the world.
6.	To read the interesting details of the conquest of Peru and its history to date.
III.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
IV.	APPROACH:
1.	Tourists to Peru are becoming more numerous. Perhaps a teacher or a student has just returned.
2.	Stories of the Incas and their conquest by Pizarro may lead to a desire to find out more.
3.	Movies or strip films about Peru. (See bibliography in this issue.)
4.	A study of the ABC countries (Pan American World Airways Teacher-Issue Nov.-Dee. 1951) may lead to the study of another country for comparison.
5.	A discussion of member nations of the United Nations could lead to a committee gathering more information on each nation.
6.	Books in the library or class reference shelf might stimulate an interest in Peru. (See bibliography in this issue.)
7.	Newspaper articles such as:
“Lima to Become City of Silence" “Liberated”
8.	A news article on the tenth Inter-American Conference may lead to a discussion of member nations.
V.	PROBLEMS:
1.	What can we learn about this land of the Incas and its treasures?
2.	Why do we say there are really three Perus?
3.	What are the three phases of culture in Peru?
4.	How have new developments in transportation revitalized Peru?
5.	What are the effects of the Andes Mountains and the Humboldt Current on the lives of the inhabitants of Peru?
6.	Who are some of the people who have contributed to the history and culture of Peru?
7.	What can we find out about all the “firsts” in Peru?
8.	What are the many natural resources in Peru?
VI. SUBJECT MATTER:
1.	SOCIAL STUDIES :—location of Peru and implications of this location; Andes mountains which occupy half the island and their effect; densely wooden tropical region; three natural divisions; chief occupations mining and agriculture ; cotton, sugar cane, rice; Peru’s natural wealth in minerals, copper, silver, gold, lead, tungsten, oil; most of world’s supply of vanadium; population of 7 million, one-fourth Spanish whites, three-fourths Mestizos and Indians; Indians descendants of Incas; Lake Titicaca, highest in the world; domesticated llamas and alpacas and their uses; (They have never been raised successfully elsewhere) government; production of cocaine and quinine; guano birds ; capital, Lima; other cities, Callao, Arequipa, Cerro do Pasco, Trujillo, Iquitos, Cuzco, Mollendo; Pizarro’s conquest; University of San Marcos the first in the new world; San Martin and Simon Bolivar ; climate and dense fogs; member of the United Nations; reasons for U.S. interest in Peru; Inca emperor Atahu-alpa; Hapolito Unanue, national hero who helped draft the Constitution; languages, Quechua and Spanish ; education free for 7-14 year olds but still many illiterates ; transportation old and new ; Machu Picchu discovered by Hiram Bingham, U.S. Senator. (Social Studies material included in this issue.)
2.	LANGUAGE ARTS:—new words. Meanings are listed in this issue. Look
over the list of Spanish words. SPELLING:—many of the new words which come up while working on the unit.
ORAL COMMUNICATION:—telling about a trip to Peru ; reviewing a book about Peru ; dramatizing some of the historical events in Peru; interviewing people to obtain information ; discussing a picture ; working with a committee ; talking to the class and giving a report. WRITTEN COMMUNICATION: — planning a trip to Peru ; writing a report ; requesting information by letter ; pretending a visit to Lake Titicaca or Cerro do Pasco ; describing how cocaine and quinine are obtained ; outlining facts for a discussion or debate about Peru. LITERATURE:—Jose Santos Cho-cano, Peruvian poet ; Inca Garcilaso, author ; Ricardo Palma, writer of satires ; dramas once used at Inca festivals translated into Spanish; books listed in Bibliography.
3.	SCIENCE:—dyes made from roots and herbs ; llama, vicuña and alpaca ; three natural divisions of Peru; Lake Titicaca; guano; effect of the Humboldt Current and the Andes on climate ; source of quinine (cinchona tree) and cocaine ; reversal of seasons ; lack of rain ; famous scientist, Hipólito Unanue.
4.	HEALTH :—diet of Peruvians, potato main food ; chicha, native drink ; sports, horse racing, bull fighting (many women bull fighters), cock fighting, boxing, polo; tropical diseases of the jungle; improvements in housing and sanitation ; U.S. help in improving health services for rubber tappers, hospitals, health centers, malaria control stations, dispensaries, water and sewage systems, nursing schools.
INCA CEREMONY----The native Indians of Peru are Incas, and their ancient rulers
bore the title Sapa Inca (Only Inca) which would correspond to such royal titles as King, Emperor, Caesar, &c.