Aviation Education
Your correspondent visited aviation education workshops this summer—or Air Age education work shops if you prefer—and found himself regretting he wasn’t enrolled as a member.
Everybody seemed to be having a wonderful time, and meanwhile getting a thorough indoctrination in the fundamentals of aviation as a science, a business and an arm of the military. Thousands of boys and girls in class rooms all over the country will share in the benefits during this school term.
But if he couldn’t sit in on any workshop from beginning to end, your correspondent did enjoy the VIP treatment that the workshops courteously extend to their special visitors, and had some line opportunities to talk with teachers about air line operation, air travel, and model airplanes.
At the end of this report there is appended a listing of this summer’s workshops, or at any rate those which came to the attention of PAA’s Educational Service. If any are missing, information about them would be welcomed.
The list is presented as an approximate guide for next summer. It gives information about location, duration and cost, for it is likely that most of them will be in operation again next summer. Addresses are included so that teachers who are interested may write direct for information about plans for 1955.
As far as is known here, the Civil Air Patrol—University of Colorado workshop was the best attended, with about 300 members. This was the third year for the CAP workshop. It attracted teachers from all over the United States, and there was a large delegation from Hawaii.
The operation of the CAP workshop will be described in some detail, as being representative. There is considerable variation, of course. The CAP workshop was in session 35 days and offered opportunity to earn 4 to 6 semester hours of academic credit, for those who wished to take it for credit. In other cases work shops were in session for one, two, three, four, five, six or seven weeks, with availability of academic credit ranging from one to six semester hours.
Obviously, the shorter work shops could not cover as much ground as the longer ones. However, the objective was the same in every case, namely to provide an opportunity for teachers to learn the fundamentals of the theory of flight, and to become familiar with the role of the airplane in life as we live it today. The shorter work
Workshops during the
By George Gardner
shops simply had to go faster, and content themselves with less detail.
In every workshop visited by your reporter, each member had an individual project to complete, either the preparation of a teaching unit or else some similar project of like scope, and it is a fair assumption that this normal workshop approach was followed in all of the aviation education workshops. A number of these study units and reports on other projects will appear in print in the educational magazines and in materials issued by the workshops. There is no clearing house for information as to when and where such materials will be published, so teachers will have to be alert for them as they check normal sources for not only aviation education materials, but also educational materials generally.
One of the workshops, at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio, was the subject of a picture report in Life Magazine. (August 16, 1954.) Participants were shown flying the model airplanes they had built during
Summer of 1954
the workshop—model airplane building and flying being an integral part of the program of an aviation education workshop.
The big C.A.P.—University of Colorado workshop at Boulder was headed up by Dr. Mervin K. Strickler, Jr. of Major General Lucas V. Beau’s C.A.P. headquarters staff, as Director, and with Dr. Roland H. Spaulding of New York University as Assistant Workshop Director and Assistant Director for Academic Staff. Dr. Strickler’s year round job consists of directing the Civil Air Patrol’s extensive aviation education program. Dr. Spaulding, at N.Y.U., is Professor of Aeronautical Education. The faculty and staff for the workshop numbered 27.
The academic day began at 7:30 a.m. When this practice was made known to the representative of World Airways Teacher by Airman R. D. McElfresh, Administrative Assistant, it came as a surprise bordering upon shock. However, the advantages (Continued on page 15)
BOULDER WORKSHOP — At left is Dr. Roland H. Spaulding, Assistant Director of the National Aviation Education Workshop, University of Colorado, in the summer of 1954. Pointing to world map, George Gardner, Educational Director of Pan American World Airways.