10
Pan American
Won id Airways Teaches
INCA MASONRY — The Incas built stone walls and monuments like the one in the picture by carefully fitting the stones together so that they would stand through the years. They did not use any mortar.
cane and reeds plastered with mud. The only stately part of the town is the central square, the Plaza de Armas. The Plaza is the heart and soul of the city. From its fountain the principal streets lead, in accordance with Spanish custom. The Colonial-style archbishop’s palace, the city hall and the snowy marble government palace front on three sides of the square, while on the fourth is the large and handsome cathedral. There are as many as seventy-two churches in Lima and a number of old Spanish mansions. East of the city are the lofty peaks of the Andes, but they can hardly ever be seen, for a damp fog hangs constantly over Lima. The climate is never warm, but never very cold.
Many of the attractions that make Peru so fascinating to the traveler will be found in the region lying north of the capital. The region possesses striking scenery. From Lima to the Ecuadorian border, the country is dominated by the formidable Andes in whose western parts are picturesque villages and scenes of memorable historic events. There is Huaura, where General San Martin declared the freedom of the country from Spain. And Callejon de Huaylas, sometimes referred to as Peru’s Paradise or the Switzerland of South America. The green narrow valley (callejon means lane) set about 10,000 feet high crowds in between two magnificent ranges of the Lofty Andes—the Cordillera Blanca (White Range) and the desolate, craggy Cordillera Negra (Black Range). All along the valley’s length flows the Santa River and nearby is twin-peaked Mount Huas-caran second in height only to Aconacagua in South America. Fragrant wild flowers abound and the inhabitants live the quiet life of their forefathers. About eighty miles
in length the valley contains a number of picturesque villages and towns with narrow cobblestone streets and odd-angled house roofs.
Also in the north is Trujillo, focus of a rich agricultural and mining region. Many of the nation’s most extensive sugar haciendas and historic ruins are located nearby. Founded by Pizarro in the 1530’s (and named in honor of his birthplace in Spain), Trujillo attracted settlers to its rich surrounding valley early; today it is a leading Peruvian city. Soil and mines built its handsome colonial mansions; surviving examples rank among South America’s most lovely.
A scene of historic importance in the conquest of the New World lies northeast of Trujillo—Cajamarca, where the giant Inca Empire toppled. The 9,000 foot high city rests in a fertile valley behind the coastal range. Its picturesque homes, shaded pastel and white, and peaceful countryside gave little hint of the violent drama enacted there on a day in November 1532. Atahu-alpa, the Inca or monarch, and several thousand of his unarmed followers gathered in Cajamarca at Pizarro’s invitation, only to fall before a daringly executed ambush. Cajamarca which was reconstructed during colonial times preserves in its central plaza what is thought to be a ransom chamber, once filled high with priceless treasures and glittering objects of gold. Also of interest are the ruins of Cajamarca’s palace and fortress, and the Inca throne.
Peru is a land of contrasts. The new and the old stand side by side. There are deserts and alpine-like retreats. Broad avenues and narrow cobblestone streets. Ancient Indian ways of life and San Marcos University, the oldest in the New World. Whether interests lie in the past or the present, in the city or in the village Peru will satisfy.
JUNIOR AMBASSADORS
On a good will mission to foster closer relations and understanding between the United States and countries in Latin America, fifteen “Junior Ambassadors”, representing the youth of America, flew last summer to Panama, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina.
The teen-age envoys, all between 14 and 17 years of age, were received by the Presidents and top-ranking officials of these countries. Their 21-day tour, sponsored by Panagra (Pan American-Grace Airways) with the approval of the State Department, enabled the boys to make friends at all age levels and broaden their understanding of the way in which people live and work in the countries they visited.
In each country the boys met “Junior Ambassadors” who in the fall of 1953, visited the United States on a similar trip sponsored by the air line.
MOUNT HUASCARAN —• The twin peaks of Mount Huascaran make it Peru’s highest. It is about eight hours by automobile from Lima.