Pan Am,cuíca, v
World Airways Teacher	5
PERU WITH ITS RICHES
By Enrique Portes
“Drawing his sword he traced a line with it on the sand from East to West. Then, turning toward the South, ‘Friends and comrades !’ he said, ‘on that side are toil, hunger, nakedness, the drenching storm, desertion, and death; on this side ease and pleasure. There lies Peru with its riches ; here Panama and its poverty. Choose, each man, what best become a brave Castilian. For my part, I go to the South.’ So saying, Pizarro stepped across the line.” Thus wrote Prescott about the conquest of Peru carried out more than four hundred years ago.
After an eventful voyage Pizarro arrived in Cajamarca, the fateful city where the Conquistador met Atahualpa, the Inca Emperor. By a trick in one half-hour of late afternoon the Spaniards slaughtered thousands of Indians, got possession of the royal personage, and won for Spain a kingdom as rich as avaricious dreams.
It was there that the captive Emperor made his fabulous offer to win his freedom by filling the room in which he was confined with gold to the height of his up-stretched arm. Pizarro promised the emperor freedom for the ransom. The Inca sent forth commands. Day and night files of his subjects arrived from every part of the kingdom bearing on their backs fine wrought objects of the precious metal, which had no monetary value for the Indians. From hundreds of miles distant the Indians came, trotting over the cold mountain trails. At last before the skeptical eyes of the Spaniards, the room was actually filled. For several weeks Indian goldsmiths were forced to melt down and cast in bars the supreme handwork of royal artisans— vessels, platters, ornaments. And when the ransom was acknowledged as being paid in full, instead of letting his captive go, Pizarro, unscrupulously, cooked up a charge of treason against him and in a mock trial had him condemned to death. All this happened long ago, and history has already rendered its verdict.
All that books can say about Peru might seem fantastically remote to you, yet it will take you a very few hours indeed of flight to cover the 4,000 miles that separate the sky-scrapers of Manhattan from the wide boulevards and vice-regal atmosphere of Lima. It is not until you are standing at the International Airport at Miami that your adventure in time really begins.
The wings of your gigantic Panagra plane loom in the gathering dusk of the Florida night. The myriad lights of Miami disappear in the tropical air as you climb to 20,000 feet. A score of minutes later you watch the outline of Cuba fade into the distance. Hours later you’re gliding to a stop at Albrook Field, Canal Zone, five hours away from Miami, ten from New Y ork.
After a brief pause, your plane is airborne again and below you the lush green forests of Panama give way to the open sea. You fly over the Pacific. You leave
behind Buenaventura, Colombia; about thirteen hours out of New York you fly high above Guayaquil, Ecuador. Dawn is breaking and the sun pushes back the dark shadows across the Peruvian coast on your left.
Soon the steel derricks of Talara stand out in the dim light, announcing their opulence in oil. Then Piura, Trujillo, namesake of Pizarro’s birthplace in Spain, rush back as your airplane speeds along. It turns inland; the brown desert gives way to fertile soil. Green valleys come into view and then these suddenly give way to a sight that is bound to thrill you. There in the purple foothills of the Andes the wide modern boulevards and lordly white buildings stand out in monumental glory. It is Lima! Your airplane makes a wide sweeping arc over the sprawling capital and rolls to a stop at Limatambo Airport. You are in Peru, treasure land of legend, art and culture. You think of Machu Picchu, the impressive ruins of an entire city set in the midst of surroundings of sublime beauty, a huddle of roofless white buildings of stone, admirably smoothed and polished and joined together. You think of other cities built on the top of towering mountains, and of railroads that run practically across the clouds; of irrigation projects and farm lands carved out of the side of steep mountain ranges with terraces which go up and up until they become lost in the spaces. All these things may seem fantastic at first, but they are real in Peru, and you are in Lima!
City of the Kings
Thanks to Prescott, Lima is known as the City of the Kings. He wrote: “Amidst the woe and destruction which Pizarro and his followers brought on the devoted land of the Incas, Lima, the beautiful city of the Kings, survives as the most glorious work of his creation, the fairest gem on the shores of the Pacific.”
And so it is. Lima illustrates vividly that old maxim that the whole is greater than any of its parts. Lima’s spirit hovers over everything. Its charm leaps out at you many times a day-—from a street name, from the stone of an old Spanish house, from the smile of a lovely girl. You sense Lima’s spirit as you stand beside the graceful fountain in the middle of the Plaza de Armas, the heart of the city; as you face the bronze figure of Francisco Pizarro holding a huge drawn sword; as you gaze at the impressive cathedral. You taste the charm of Lima as you walk from the center of the Plaza de Armas to the old buildings that fringe one side of it. Their arcades, which the Spaniards called Arcade of the Button Makers and Arcade of the Letter Writers, are still so called by Limenos today.
Then turn from the Arcade of the Letter Writers into Jiron Union, the main shopping thoroughfare, and you get a foretaste of what is to come. Things of the past elbow things alive and the Twentieth Century tempers the Sixteenth. Here is Spanish dignity of both eras. It is cosmopolitan