Pan American
2	Ifoffio Airways Teacher

Pan American
World Air ways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 19 54, Pan American World Airways, Inc. Publication Schedule: Five issues annually appearing at two month intervals during the school term.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
LETTER CONTEST
Our query, “How Are We Doing?” in the May issue brought in some mighty fine letters.
The judges awarded the first prize Rep-logle globe to Verna Seabolt of Cookeville, Tennessee. But it was a close decision, and the formula used in an effort to rate three letters as first, second and third produced a tie score for the two letters which ranked next after Miss Seabolt’s. They were written by Mrs. Eugene Barnes of Batesville. Ark. and R. K. Lloyde, Director of Adult Education and Principal, Inglewood Evening High School, Inglewood, California. Identical globes have been sent.
Thanks to all who responded.
The prize winning letters follow:
Cookeville, Tenn.
Dear Mr. Gardner;
Thank you for “World Airways Teacher,” which is a welcome visitor to my classroom. I teach grades 1-8, in a rural school. The children love aviation, and oftentimes rush to the window to identify a plane or a convoy flying over the school house. They discuss the altitude, ceiling, visibility, and the mission of the plane. I find myself joining in the game, somehow it sets my gypsy blood astir, too.
We use “World Airways Teacher” in so many ways I can only say, it is a wonderful source of up-to-date information. It appeals to today’s youth and lightens the task of preparation for the busy teacher. We use it as a guide to our imaginary travel scheme to all places we study in social studies. It is an open book to necessary information needed before the “take off”, and while we are aboard, and certainly after “the landing.” I file each copy we receive, which makes a useful addition to our school library, and is always available when needed.
The boys and girls enjoy a little stunt “Lets Find Out” where they try to match each other’s wits as new words are introduced, and looked up in the dictionary.
By the descriptions given in “World Airways Teacher, they have been encouraged to draw pictures and make models of planes they like to travel in.
I enjoy the method in which each unit is introduced. There is a purpose, a way to achieve that purpose, expected outcomes (pit-falls, or stepping stones), and a compact package of information. “World Airways Teacher” has unlocked vivid opportunities to the students, and many are looking
forward to world travel, earning vacations, through study and work, etc.
I especially appreciate the joy of using-such outstanding service more than words can express. May you continue to send this little message of hope, inspiration, and guidance into a gloomy world, until our problems evaporate into kindness, and peace comes to a war torn universe. Such aids to education are a life line to struggling humanity, and may enable many down trodden teachers to find the way into a more bountiful way of life.
My students are especially curious about “Space Travel” and “Rocket Ships,” and information is very limited, so I am looking forward to a unit, or a story, on these subjects. A little seven year old boy, asked me to go into the field to see his rocket ship, and asked many questions, to which I could only reply, “I don’t know.”
New terms as they unfold make an interesting study. I am fond of the unit approach as it is used in “World Airways Teacher,” since I blend so many subjects under one discussion, I find it more adapted to my situation.
Thank you very much for this opportunity to get in “my say” for Aviation education. I am most grateful for your splendid service to us.
Sincerely,
Verna Seabolt Inglewood, Calif.
Dear Sir:
In response to your suggestion in the last issue of the Pan American World Airways Teacher I want to in the first place say it is expertly organized for effective teaching. I have found it concise, factual and written so that both young and older adult students can understand and enjoy reading it.
The “Teacher” has been used in outclasses in U.S. History for adults where the students need to become aware of the characteristics and economics of other countries as they affect us and to give them better understanding of the problems of other people in determining our own foreign policy.
We have also used the “Teacher” in Citizenship and Naturalization classes for adults where persons from many foreign countries are studying our own national, state and local governments in preparation for examinations to become naturalized citizens of the United States. Knowledge of other peoples and their governments leads them to appreciate all the more the privilege of being a citizen of the United States.
I have done a lot of traveling all over the world, a lot of it via Pan American Airways, and in arranging my itinerary have found the “Teacher” excellent in obtaining the information necessary for the background to appreciation of each country visited. Needless I keep a file of them which file was extremely valuable last summer when I conducted a party “Around the Pacific” with Pan-American furnishing the transportation Hong Kong to Bangkok and Fiji to Honolulu.
I am planning a class for adults this summer entitled “Arm Chair Traveler” which will not only use Pan American Airways’ beautiful, colored, 16 mm motion pictures of other countries but in addition use the
“Teacher” to give them study material about the countries presented. Information on “How to Travel” will also be a part of the course and both your “Teacher” and “New Horizons,” which you publish will be used. As a traveling companion and guide I have found “New Horizons” invaluable for on the spot selections of what to do—and equally important—what not to do.
In conclusion may I express my appreciation to Pan American Airways for making an outstanding contribution to world understanding and thereby world peace through their World Airways Teacher. More power to you.
Yours very truly, R. r. Lloyde
Batesville, Ark.
Dear Mr. Gardner:
I have been on your mailing list for “Pan American World Airways Teacher” for some two or three years. During this time, I have become a “rocking chair cosmopolitan.” Really I have traveled very little, but thanks to your wonderful publication my rocker soloing has taken me to many strange and exciting places in the world.
Tn evaluating this paper, I would like to divide it into three parts: 1. Travel news, maps, and pictures; 2. Articles about countries ; 3. Study Units.
I.	Travel news, maps, and pictures.
The travel news is always very interesting.
When a group of travelers is featured in news items, you are doing much to foster world peace and world understanding. I do believe these general articles could be a little shorter. The individuals in the groups could be given more space. For example, in the article “Teen-age Educational Exchanges”, I would like to know more about Epel Esin, that pretty young lady from Turkey. The maps are fair. For outlines, they are splendid. I believe more detailed maps, showing topography, climate, and important places, would be helpful. This suggestion may be impractical, but it would be nice to have colored maps. Colored maps are more interesting. Your choice of pictures is quite good. A picture on page one is always good publication planning.
II.	Articles about travel to other countries.
This is the best part. I like the “chatty” style in which they are written. No detail is too small to overlook. The writers seem to include everything . . . what to wear, what to see, how to act. If you published only this part of the “Pan American World Airways Teacher”, you would be rendering a valuable service to “grounded” teachers such as I am. I look forward to “my trip” every two months.
III.	Study Units.
I do not use them in my work, but I do read them. They are very complete and comprehensive. I could find many helpful suggestions from them, but to actually use them in my local situation, I would be greatly hampered by limited library facilities and teaching equipment.
The publication is well worth your time, efforts, and expense. It certainly broadens the horizon and outlook of one country school teacher. Keep up the good work, and the best of luck to you.
Sincerely yours, Kathleen Barnes (Mrs.) Eugene M. Barnes