Pan American
s	Airways
How Peru Lives — Economy and Trade
By Lou A. Phillips
iish himself in that country the richest and most awe-inspiring regions in the world.
All to please you
You will be glad to discover new dishes and recipes in Peru. “Peru offers a wide variety of native dishes,” answers a Peruvian friend to whom I put the question about food. “There are dishes, typical of the country to tempt any adventurer”. And I listen while my mouth waters. “Fish plays an important part in the Peruvian diet,” continues my friend. “Seviche is a typical one. Seviche comes from cebolla which means onion. It is raw pickled fish. Strips of raw fish are ‘cooked’ by the pickling action of salt, lemon juice and onion sauce. Aji (the Mexicans call it chili) is added to give the piquancy so characteristic of seviche.”
“There are typical dishes equally intriguing,” adds my Peruvian friend. With careful attention I write down the names: “Chupe de camarones, a delightful thick shrimp soup with eggs, rice, yellow potato and cream; la causa, a paste of yellow potato with eggs; tacutacu, a combination of beans and rice (in the U.S. southland a similar dish goes by the name of Hoppin’ John) ; escabeche, a pickled fish; papas a la huancaína, anticucho, masamorra (graded corn cooked with milk) and many others.”
In so far as entertainment is concerned, Peru offers a wide range of attractions. Peruvians, like Mexicans, are enthusiastic about bull-fighting. It is a great and colorful spectacle. A bull-fighter who succeeds in Lima has to be good. Not all is blood and sand, however. Lima, in particular, offers interesting spots. There is horse racing, boxing, polo, etc. The beaches near Lima are excellent. And then, you have music, songs of the people, accompanied by the guitar.
Glad to Return
Whether you have remained two weeks, two months or two years, your impressions of Peru will never fade away. Lima, Cuzco, Arequipa, Machu Picchu, El Misti will have left their imprint in your heart and memory for ever. You will have bought in Lima souvenirs of all sorts—articles made from the fleece of the vicuñas, silver in every design, textiles woven by Indian craftsmen and craftswomen, vicuña rugs, soft and thick and of singular beauty, vicuña mats and bags.
If you have visited Arequipa you will not forget the three great volcanoes—which give the city a frame of beauty, and repeat what a poet once wrote about El Misti: “El Misti is dominant, unique, alone. Cha-chani and Pichu-Pichu do not accompany her, they contemplate her from a respectful distance.”
You will also remember Machu-Picchu, the magnificent and awe inspiring ruins of an Inca city, silent testimony of a dead civilization. But above all these unique experiences you will remember the Peruvians, their courteous disposition, their ever-present desire to please and be useful. Then you realize that through its people the development of Peru is really taking place. You can see it happen for it takes a few hours to fly to Peru wherever you may be in the United States.
Roughly the shape of California, but about three times as big, Peru has an area of about 482,000 square miles. This figure is only approximate because of the nation’s long standing boundary disputes with bordering countries. These disputes arise from disagreement about colonial grants and early treaties, and from imperfect knowledge of the interior. Peru lies along the western or Pacific coast of South America. Ecuador and Colombia bound it on the north; Chile on the south; and Bolivia and Brazil on the east. Its population of 7,500,000 is about equal to that of Chicago, Philadelphia and Los Angeles combined.
The backbone of the Andes Mountains runs the length of Peru dividing it into three distinct regions. Thus air transportation has been an important factor in binding the nation together and stimulating its domestic and international trade.
From Paita, the most northern port on Peru’s 1,400 miles of coast, as far south as the Chilean border, the coastal plain, lying between the Andes and the Pacific, is a bare desert, which, but for irrigation, would be without vegetation. Varying in width from 25 to 100 miles it contains about one-fifth of the population of the country. In some places rain has fallen only once in several centuries. By irrigating the narrow river valleys, however, the desert has been made to produce the country’s principal export crops of cotton and sugar. Some rice is also grown in the area. Midway on the coast is Callo, the chief port and gateway to Lima. Farther south is Mollendo, port of entry to the high plateau of the Andes,
where about two-thirds of all Peruvians live.
From Mollendo a railroad climbs over the barren hills toward the plateau. This is a desert of sand and pebbles stretching toward the red and gray mountains. Beyond the mountains are three huge volcanoes, one of which is not quite extinct. To the north is snow-clad Coropuna, over 20,000 feet high. The train climbs the red and gray mountains to a second terrace where the town of Arequipa stands on both banks of the river Chile, in an amphitheater formed by the volcanoes.
The Central plateau of the Andes, north of Arequipa, lies between the two main ranges of the Andes, the eastern and western Cordilleras. The plateau is from 10,000 to 13,000 feet high, and is the only part of Peru where men can live by agricultural or pastoral pursuits. There is fertile soil in the valleys but the sides are so steep that only the Indians can cultivate them. They plant in terraces on the hillside just as their ingenious ancestors did. Each village is completely cut off from its neighbors. On the plateau there is coarse grass which supports sheep and cattle, and flocks of llamas and alpacas, both valuable for their wool. The finest fleece of all comes from the vicuña, a beast resembling the llama, but which has never been domesticated.
In the heart of the plateau is Lake Titicaca, 130 miles long by 41 miles wide, about half the size of Lake Ontario. It is the highest lake in the world navigable by steamers, and was believed to be sacred by the Incas. In the center of the lake are two
LLAMAS------A friendly Indian woman with her llamas stops to chat with a visitor.
The llama is a cousin of the camel, and is the beast of burden of Peru.