Pan American
World Airways Teacher
9
holy Indian islands, the Island of the Sun and the Island of the Moon. On the first is a sacred rock, shaped something like the head of a puma, which gives its Indian name to the lake. The second was probably the harem of the Incas. The north and west shore is Peruvian; the east and south shore of the lake belong to Bolivia.
On the other side of the Andes is the tropical region known as the montaña, which falls away into the plain of the Amazon. This is the third area of Peru. No natural frontier exists between Peru and its neighbor on the east, Bolivia. The montaña is covered with tropical forests, and nobody lives there except a few collectors of rubber and tribes of wild Indians. It is full of valuable minerals and timber, but the damp terrific heat makes it an impossible district for Europeans.
Peru’s livelihood comes from agriculture, stock raising, oil wells and mines. It is said the Peruvians live from the soil and their government lives from taxes on minerals. The soil produces over twice as much as all mines, oil wells and industries. Over nine-tenths of the people live directly from the soil. About one-seventh of the arable land or about four million acres are cultivated. About one-half of the crops come from irrigated land.
In the lowlands and valleys, rice, cotton and sugar cane are important crops. In the upland areas wheat, corn, barley, oats, potatoes and fruit are raised. Peru is believed by some authorities to be the original home of the potato. The products of the tropical eastern section consist chiefly of rubber, cinchona (Peru first gave quinine to the world), other medicinal herbs, dyestuffs and cacao products. Rubber and quinine, once chief exports are unimportant due to competition from the East Indies. The alpaca, llama and sheep furnish valuable textile materials. Forest wealth is scarcely tapped.
J ust off the coast of Peru are some islands which have contributed strangely to the nation’s income. Visited by millions of birds, their manure, called “guano,” is a source of fertilizer. For a period of twenty years around the middle of the Nineteenth Century guano produced more money for Peru than was obtained from the mining of gold and silver by the Incas. This source of fertilizer is still important although to a lesser degree.
Most of Peru’s natural wealth comes from minerals, the most important of which are copper, silver, lead, petroleum, gold, coal and tungsten. Peru furnishes most of the world’s supply of vanadium. Mines furnish about two-thirds of all exports. Petroleum is first even though the Peruvian output is only about one-fifteenth that of Venezuela. Copper is second with the nation’s production being topped only by Mexico and Chile in Latin America. Antimony, nickel, tungsten and manganese are also produced. Industry consists of textiles, chemical products, prepared foods, glassware, paper and other consumer goods. On paper Peruvian exports are greater than its imports showing a comfortable margin of profit. However, mines, oil wells, smelters and refineries are chiefly foreign owned with outside technicians drawing major salaries and major profits flowing to foreign
holders of stocks and bonds. This is also true of much of the sugar and stock raising industries. Cotton is the one sizable national enterprise chiefly owned by Peruvian citizens. American capital leads with British interests following in importance.
There is one industry in Peru however to which both the Incas and the Spaniards unknowingly contributed and which provides considerable income to both small towns and larger cities. It is the tourist industry which is constantly growing. Peru is a unique tourist haven. It is a mixture of Indian and Spanish Colonial tradition. Lima is both sophisticated and gay. Many Inca ruins are both awe inspiring and mysterious. It is a land which appeals to both the fun loving and the serious traveler.
The Incas built a mighty kingdom centuries before the discovery of America and were far superior to the tribes around them. They had considerable scientific and engineering knowledge. They had built fine roads and suspension bridges, and by means of their wonderful irrigation systems were able to cultivate the steep mountain sides. Corn, potatoes, tomatoes, coca, and cacao were among their crops. The Incas had also cultivated some of the arts, and excelled as masons, weavers, dyers, potters and in the working of metals. Their system of government approached perfection. Everything was organized. Agriculture was planned and controlled. One-third of the crop belonged to the State ; one-third to the grower ; and one third was reserved for possible disasters.
Cuzco, the capital of the Inca Empire, lies in a basin-shaped hollow, 11,380 feet above the sea. Around it is a green and fertile vale with a few trees. The people
of Cuzco are Indian, and the Quechua language is most frequently heard in the streets. The buildings of Cuzco are all Spanish. Stone houses line the streets, which are paved with rough cobbles. On the great plaza, which stands on the same site as the market place in the Inca city, are three churches and the university founded in 1598. The Incas are said to have possessed a golden chain long enough to stretch completely around the plaza. They threw it into the Lake of Urcos so that it could not fall into the hands of the Spaniards, and many attempts have been made to recover it.
Nothing remains of the ancient city but walls, which are made of huge stones, fitted together without mortar and sloping slightly backwards. The Temple of the Sun has a rounded wall, in which the stones are so perfectly worked that the curve presents a smooth surface. Above the city is the fortress of Sacsahuaman, defended on the side away from the town by three parallel lines of walls. These are built of even larger stones than the walls of Cuzco, and seem to be the work of some people who had disappeared long before the coming of the Spanish.
Lima, the capital, which stands a little inland, 500 feet above the sea, was built by Pizarro in 1535. Once the capital of all the Spanish colonies in South America, it was known as the City of the Kings. Its viceroy was the greatest man in the Western Hemisphere, and it was the last city on the continent to hold out for Spain. It still has great families who pride themselves on their descent from Spanish nobles. The city is always in danger of earthquakes, and so its houses are seldom built higher than one or two stories. Many of them are made of
SILVER------As in Mexico, and other Latin American countries, there are highly
skilled silversmiths in Peru. Prices are relatively low, and silver souvenirs are favorites for tourists visiting Peru.