Pan Am FRrCA N
World Airways Teacher
15
Aviation Education Workshops during the Summer of 1954
(Continued from Page 1)
of the early start soon became apparent. The early morning truly is “the best part of the day” in the Rocky Mountain foothills. Also, the day’s program was complete at 3 :30, leaving a long afternoon and evening for recreational activities. The weekends were free for expeditions to the mountains, to Wyoming for the rodeo, etc. etc.
Lectures were given by faculty staff members and visiting specialists. Subjects covered such technical phases as Why the Airplane Flies, Engines, Navigation and Meteorology. The social and economic implications of aviation were covered from various points of view by faculty people and visitors. Special lectures on aviation industry matters were included (e.g. “Aircraft Industry and Aviation Education, by Ken Ellington, Assistant to the President, Republic Aviation Corporation) also education and aviation (e.g. “Aviation Education and the School Administrator” by Dr. Jordan Larson, President, American Association of School Administrators and Superintendent of Schools, Mt. Vernon, N. Y.)
Since the Boulder workshop was intended as a service for teachers generally, and at the same time as an educational opportunity for leaders in the Civil Air Patrol’s own cadet program lectures and instruction on C.A.P., the C.A.P. Cadet program and the Air Reserve Forces were included.
Flight experience for every participant was set down as a basic part of the summer’s program—perhaps the first basic consideration. Arrangements were made for the teachers to ride in various types of aircraft, and to observe the operation of others in which it was not possible for them to fly, like military jets. This led to a demand for flight instruction, which was not intended as part of the set program—the objective was to make teachers aeronautically understanding, not to turn them into pilots. But the demand for flight instruction was there, and Dr. Strickler made arrangements for a nearby flying service to give the instruction, at the expense of the individuals who were to take it, and in time outside of the workshop’s scheduled hours. About a third of the workshoppers took flight instruction, often reporting to the airport for their dual, and later on, solo time, as early as 5 a.m.
If it were possible to discuss the programs of other aviation education workshops, it would be found that their patterns were similar, with variations made appropriate or necessary by local circumstances.
As mentioned above, the list given here is a record of activities carried on during the past summer. Many, and perhaps all of them will be offered in 1955. Teachers interested in attending aviation education workshops next summer should write those listed as being in charge in 1954.
The outstanding social event was an authentic Hawaiian Luau staged by the large delegation from Hawaii under the supervision of William Baker of Hawaii, who was in charge of Social and Recreational Services.
Southern California Aviation Education Workshop
PLACE: Los Alimitos Naval Air Station Los Alimitos, California SPONSORS: Long Beach State College and
Los Angeles State College DATES : 2 - 13 August 1954 APPROXIMATE COSTS:
$17.00 Fees
40.00	Approx. Room & Board ACADEMIC CREDIT: 2 semester hours
Dr. Walter Nagle, Director Aviation Education Workshop Long Beach State College Long Beach, California Northern California Aviation Education Workshop PLACE: San Mateo Junior College Coyote Point Campus San Mateo, California SPONSORS : San Francisco State College and
San Jose State College DATES : 9 - 20 August 1954 APPROXIMATE COSTS:
$17.00 Fees
50.00	Room & Board
ACADEMIC CREDIT: 2 semester hours Dr. Willard Leeds, Director Aviation Education Workshop San Francisco State College San Francisco, California Civil Air Patrol — University of Colorado
National Aviation Education Workshop
PLACE: University of Colorado Boulder, Colorado SPONSOR: Civil Air Patrol and University of Colorado DATES : 22 July - 25 August 1954
APPROXIMATE COSTS:
$75.00 Tuition
85.00	Room & Board
ACADEMIC CREDIT : 4 - 6 semester hours
Director of Admissions Summer Sessions University of Colorado Boulder, Colorado Dr. Mervin K. Strickler, Jr.
Civil Air Patrol Bolling Air Force Base Washington 25, D. C.
Montana State University Aviation Education Workshop
PLACE: Montana State University Missoula, Montana
SPONSORS: Montana State University DATES: 14 June-2 July 1954 APPROXIMATE COSTS:
$19.75 Fees
15.00	Room 25.50 Board
ACADEMIC CREDIT: 3 quarter hours Professor Henry Knapp School of Education Montana State University Missoula, Montana
Eastern Montana College of Education Aviation Education Workshop
PLACE: Eastern Montana College of Education
Billings, Montana
SPONSORS : Eastern Montana College of Education
DATES : 28 June -16 July 1954 ACADEMIC CREDIT: 3 quarter hours Professor Henry Knapp School of Education Montana State University Missoula, Montana Midwestern Aviation Education Workshop
PLACE: Miami University Oxford, Ohio
AVIATION MODELERS — Members of the Boulder Workshop participated in the dedication of a model airplane flying circle sponsored by the city of Boulder and the Boulder Exchange Club in the picture, back row: Mr. Vearl L. Root, Assistant Director for Administrative Services, National Aviation Education Workshop; Mr. Victor E. Moore, Aviation Educationist, Northeastern Region, Civil Air Patrol; Mr. Willis C. Brown, Specialist in Aviation Education, U. S. Office of Education; Captain Harold Burdick, Commander Boulder Squadron, Civil Air Patrol; Mayor, City of Boulder; Major General Lucas V. Beau, National Commander, Civil Air Patrol; Mr. John Lerom, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Forces; President, Boulder Exchange Club; Commander, Boulder Squadron, Air Force Reserve; Dr. Mervin K. Strickler, Jr., Director of Aviation Education, Hq CAP and Director, 1954 National Aviation Education Workshop. Front Row: Boulder young men, including three CAP Cadets and models they have built.