Pah Amertcah
Aprii, 1948	World Airways Teacher
Literature and Art
The amazing thing about most of the American Republics is that in spite of their high illiteracy, they have achieved an outstanding development in the field of literature.
Guatemala is no exception. She has poets of fame and novelists of recognized artistry. The best Guatemalan writer is Rafael Arevalo Martinez, whose life-story is nearly as fantastic as his strange tales. “As for biographical data,” he wrote recently, “I can only say that I was born in 1884, that I was married in 1911, that I have seven children, a body incredibly emaciated (weigh 94 pounds), and that I have had a chronic neurasthenia since I was fourteen years old. And nothing more.”
Arevalo Martinez’ death was announced in 1920, and his friends composed epitaphs to his memory, and critics hailed him in obituaries as one of the finest writers in Spanish. Fortunately, the announcement was an error. He still lives and continues to produce exquisite poetry, both in verse and in prose.
Arevalo Martinez’ strange personality has found literary expression in various novelettes which are unique for their use of a weird psychological theory. According to him, individuals have traits best represented by some particular animal, and in keeping with his theory he has created the psychological tale in The Man who Resembled a Horse and in The Monitot: The Animals of the Tropics.
Mr. Alonitot, a huge timid man, balancing himself from leg to leg, is like an elephant; Aliss Eguilaz, short, pretty and plump, with her perpetual white feathers, is the dove; and her suitor, Mr. Reinaldo, long and thin, with his fascinatingly ugly face and hypnotic eyes, is the serpent.
Perhaps the best known Arevalo Martinez’ creation is the man who resembled a horse—in reality the Colombian poet Barba Jacob. Air. Aretal—the- poet—is described as having a strangely equine figure:
“Air. Aretal stretched his neck like a horse. Air. Aretal would fall like a horse—would slip suddenly with his left foot, and his haunches would almost touch the ground .... Mr. Aretal would shake like a high-strung animal —and tilt his head and turn it sideways and look that way. He would draw near a pretty woman .... with elastic motions, his head held low and to one side, and then trot all the way around the room.”
But Arevalo Alartinez carries his analysis still further. His protagonist has not only the physical appearance of a horse, but the character of a horse as well. Fantastic though this may seem, it is a fine analysis of an incomplete human being. What strikes us most in Arevalo Alartinez is his human sympathy and his compassionate understanding of his fellow-men. He seems to feel a Christian pantheism that makes all created things one; and like a literary Saint Francis—as a critic writes —the Guatemalan poet experiences a true affection for Brother Tiger, Brother Horse, Brother Serpent, and Sister Dove.
CHICHICASTENANGO. This famous church is familiar to all visitors to Chichi-castenango. Converted to Catholicism, the Indians have carried over some of their old rites, such as this one of waving burning incense around them to purify themselves before entering the church.
As an example, let us quote one of Arevalo Martinez’ poems, “Los Hombres Lobos” as translated by Miss Alice Stone Blackwell: “Human Wolves”
At first I called them “Brothers,” with hands outstretched I met them,
But from their thefts among my lambs I saw deep wrongs befall,
And then the voice of brotherhood fell mute within my spirit.
When I drew near to look at them, wolves were they, one and all!
What after in my soul that used to walk so blindly,
Aly poor sad soul which dreams and loves with tenderness today?
How came it that I saw not in their tread the wild beasts’ prowling,
Nor in their eyes the instincts of slaughter and of prey?
Since then I too, become a wolf, have left the true, straight pathway;
I too, a wolf, have fallen, and rolled in mud and gore.
And then in every one of them again I found a brother,
And drew near to look at them, and all were men once more!
Guatemala counts also among her outstanding sons Miguel Garavito, the painter of Quezaltenango, who depicts Indians of Los Altos in their typical garb and their most picturesque pursuits. Garavito has studied in Europe and is influenced by the later impressionists. Only in subject-matter is he Guatemalan. Another is Rafael Yela Gaunther, the sculptor, who ranks along-
side Garavito. Yela Gaunther has vigor and clarity and is trying to express the underlying tragedy of the Indian worker against his milieu.
Guatemala is a little country, but rich in resources and eager to advance. You can feel this desire by reading Guatemalan papers and magazines, and by listening to her radio broadcasting which never fails to remind the people that the country needs educated citizens.
Aviation’s Growth
The development of commercial aviation in Guatemala is a chapter in the development of commercial aviation in Central America. This industry did not actually begin until 1922-23. There had been experiment flights, of course, but no attempt had been made to use planes to exploit a territory where rugged terrain and poor economic conditions had together conspired to restrict surface transportation to burro pack trains operating over mountain and jungle trails.
Although Honduras was the first to establish an air route between Tegucigalpa, the capital, and San Pedro Sula—a service which lasted six months only—Guatemala was really the first to realize the benefits to be derived from an international air line which would connect all the Central American Republics.
Since these Republics were unable to have their own air lines, the United States was invited to lend its support. It was in February, 1929, that the first permanent