Pan American
Apr», 1948___________________WoRio Airways Teacher
CHINA IN THE AIR AGE
By Lou A. Phillips
Oftentimes Americans sum up their entire attitude toward China by Kipling’s familiar phrase “East is East and West is West and never the twain shall meet”. On finishing the verse however, they will find that “there is neither east nor west, border nor breed nor birth when two strong men stand face to face though they come from the ends of the earth.”
In these lines lie both problem and solution to the dilemma of modern China. That nation must become strong economically, financially and politically before it can assume any leadership in the Eastern World.
The Chinese nation is actually composed of eighteen provinces but their relationship with one another has varied from age to age. Mongolia for example, although nominally under Chinese control, is a land of nomadic self-governing tribes who know little and care less about any government whether it be in Nanking, Moscow or Washington.
On the other hand the seven provinces of Manchuria play a vital role in the economic and political life of the nation. Not only rich in natural resources, the territory benefited by intense industrialization which took place during a decade and a half of Japanese occupation.
The majority of China’s four hundred million live and till the soil in the ten provinces of China proper. In this area are the principal rivers of the country; the Hwang Ho in the north, known as China’s Sorrow because of its repeated, devastating floods, and the principal commercial arteries of middle and southeastern China, the Yangtze and the Si Kiang.
The Good Earth
The good earth is both China’s strength and weakness. As relatively self sufficient tillers of the soil most peasants have been able to survive numerous invasions, ever present political abuse from some of their own leaders, and financial chaos of the worst kind. Chinese agriculture, a product of forty centuries of transmitted experience, is distinguished by its unremitting labor.
Intensity of cultivation can be seen in the multiple cropping of two, three or four crops which are grown in the same ground space each year. As many as three crops in different stages of development are often grown simultaneously in one field. The three greatest food crops are rice, the staple food in central and southern China, millet, and wheat which is second to rice as a staple article of diet in the north. Tea, the chief beverage since the eighth century, is a great agricultural industry in the uplands of central China and the ranges of the maritime provinces.
The Overburdened Farmer
Half of China’s farming families own tiny parcels of land hardly large enough to sustain them while the other half work land as tenants. Some 36% of the farms are under one and a half acres and 26% range from one and a half to four and a half acres. As a result, although 85% of
the population lives by the soil they still do not produce sufficient food and must import quantities of sugar, wheat, fishery products and even rice.
Farming implements, in general, are still as primitive as they were forty centuries ago. Antiquated crooked sticks, bamboo plows and hand trowels are used with even good garden tools such as improved hoes, spades, shovels and hand plows usually beyond reach, as farmers do not have the extra farm income to buy them.
Recently, however, provincial associations and government agricultural colleges have encouraged the development of rural cooperatives. The University of Nanking has established departments to improve native varieties of crops. American cotton seeds have been among the species they have acclimatized and distributed. The United States Departments of State and Agriculture have also sent agricultural missions to China composed of authorities in economics, chemical engineering, credit and marketing for special work in silk, tea, tung oil, carpet wool and soya bean production.
Improved Transportation Needed
One aspect of the marketing problem is the need for transportation facilities to transport crops from one local market to another which would enable a locality to specialize in the crop best suited to its soil and exchange it for other necessities. The lack of transportation also hampers the development of industry in the interior of China as it prevents the flow of goods from one district to another.
Most small merchandise in China is moved by human labor with wheelbarrows
and carrying poles. In northern China there are wheeled vehicles, cumbrous carts pulled by horses, mules, bullocks or mixed teams, but in central and southern China sedan chairs and rickshaws are still used in and near large cities. In the latter region the great bulk of inland trade is carried on the Yangtze, Si Kiang and other rivers supplemented by canals with many Chinese spending their entire lives on river boats. Of late the use of steam boats has been increasing on the lower Yangtze.
During various periods in Chinese history there have been extensive systems of imperial highways constructed which radiated from Nanking, the capital, but these roads were not kept in repair long and soon deteriorated into mere tracks. At Shanghai and other port cities, foreign traders and Chinese merchants have supported the building of broad macadamized thoroughfares capable of heavy traffic. Since 1937 the retreat towards the west made necessary by Japanese occupation of coastal regions has been responsible for the building of more roads than previously existed in the entire country. The most famous of these have been the Ledo Road from India to China and the Burma Road.
A Bright Spot
The greatest effect of the war on transportation has occurred in the field of air transport. From 1941 to 1945 one of the busiest airports in the world was on a dusty windswept spot on the Yunnan plateau in southern China called Kunming, the principal terminus of the India-China hop over the Himalaya mountains.
Planes of the China National Aviation Corporation and the Air Transport Com-
JUNKS. The harbors of China are a never-ending source of amazement to westerners because of the strange (to the Westerner) water craft, including junks as shown here.