Pah Amer/ca h
Apr«, 1948	World Airways Teacher
OLD AND NEW. The contrast between the Flying Clipper and the Chinese Wall dramatizes the new age sought by China’s leaders.
build up needed dollar exchange. One important prewar supply of dollars was the remittances of Chinese in this country to relatives back home. Principal sales of commodities to the United States have been tung oil, tungsten, tin, antimony, raw silk, tea, sesame, goat and kidskins and pigs bristles. In return we have sold vehicles, farm and industrial machinery and tools, cigarettes and textiles.
Many Chinese hoped to fill Japan’s position in world markets but their porcelains, laces, embroideries, wood and ivory carvings are works of art of Chinese craftsmen and much too expensive to replace the mass production items of an industrialized Japan.
With the inauguration a few years ago of scheduled commercial air services between the U.S. and China by Pan American World Airways, much interest in the potential trade by air between the two countries has been expressed by both traders and the air transport industry.
To ship by boat from the Pacific Coast to Shanghai takes 18 days. This time interval does not include delays that may be encountered through port operations and congestion. To ship by air takes but a fraction of this time and provides a flexibility of service that does away with some of the intermediate handling which so often results in damage, losses or increased packing costs for goods.
Taking into account a reasonable relationship between direct costs of transport by air and the value of air shipments such products as non-metallic minerals, precious and semi-precious stones, scents, textile fibers and manufactures, silk, linen, wool, furs, works of art and literature all are potential air cargoes.
Financing China
To institute mass production facilities quickly China needs foreign capital which is not likely to flow into a country torn by civil war. Although financiers are not sure of the attitude of the peace-time government toward individual enterprise or foreign investments the Chinese seem to favor outside capital investment in enterprises which are jointly owned by Chinese and foreign interests. An example is the China National Aviation Corporation in which Chinese hold a majority of the shares and Pan American World Airways controls a minority interest. A Chinese is managing director and the business is operated under Chinese law. United States investments are most active in the Public Utility field while the British and Japanese dominate in textiles, shipping, banking and railroads.
In regard to substantial U.S. monetary aid for rehabilitation purposes, many in the
f United States are inclined to agree with Secretary of State Marshall’s belief that it is futile to pour large funds into China until the civil war has ended and currency has been stabilized. The purpose of our limited offer of sixty million dollars during 1948 and 240 million more during 1949 is to keep the country free to work out her own destiny.
Sources of Travel Delight
Air transportation will also play another important role in the Chinese economic picture. American wanderlust is a trade item of the first importance. The speed of air transportation enabling larger numbers of travelers to visit China will do much to increase the dollar supply in that country for the purchase of more American products.
China’s four million square miles stretching from Siberia to Burma and French Indo-China offer a wide range of beauty and fascination a lifetime of travel could not exhaust. Air travel affords visitors opportunities never enjoyed by Marco Polo. Strange hinterlands, hours away from ports, rugged Yangtze gorges, fever chart mountains of Kwangsi rising abruptly from misty green rice fields, great Tibetan steppes and the towering icy pinnacle of Minyaganka are within a few hours journey.
Two hours from Shanghai will take visitors to Soochow, the Venice of China, ancient capital of the Kingdom of Wu, sixth century B. C. A hundred miles southeast of Shanghai is Hangchow whose products range from the heaviest of brocades and silks to the finest of gauzes. Its West Lake islets and surrounding hills, colorful temples, pagodas, historic relics and willow fringed lotus ponds make it a delightful stopover in any itinerary.
Nanking, 200 miles up the Yangtze by direct plane from Shanghai is a modern city and the site of a superb memorial to the Father of the Chinese Republic, Dr. Sun Yat Sen.
Canton, the port of call for American sailing Clipper Ships will interest travelers from the United States for in its curio shops are still to be found early American glassware and ships silver of the early nineteenth century.
Canton’s long history has also seen the destructive conquest of the Manchus whose oppression drove the native populace to live on boats where several hundreds of thousands of their descendants still remain.
There are two capitals to see: Nanking the peace-time seat of the Government and Chungking the wartime center of government, trade, and industry. Then there is Shanghai, three cities in one and normally the greatest seaport in the Orient.
Situated twelve miles from the mouth of the Yangtze River it is divided into native, International and French quarters. The Chinese sector consists of small houses crowded closely together along mysterious streets while the two Western sections are modern municipalities with fine buildings. Because of its strategic position Shanghai was one of the first cities to fall into the Chinese-Japanese conflict in 1937.
You will like China when you get to know the land and its people. It cannot be transformed from a feudal autocracy into a modern democracy overnight. The slower rhythm of the East and the magnitude of the task make the process long and slow with exasperating delays and painful setbacks inevitable. In the end China will accept only what she can slowly and thoroughly absorb and assimilate.