Pan American
World Airways Teacher	Aprii, ms
mand set an air cargo record that is likely to stand for years to come with about a thousand planes taking off and landing each day. Often over sixty transports were circling the field waiting to land.
The building of a large system of railroads envisaged by Dr. Sun Yat Sen as part of a plan for modernizing Chinese transportation, communication and industrial facilities has developed slowly with most of the rail facilities located in northern China and the lower Yangtze Valley. Because of the wartime development in airway and highway transport China probably no longer requires such a tremendous railway development. Nevertheless the construction of at least three trunk rail lines connecting rail centers along the coast with large interior market towns and trade centers in Chinese Turkestan and other central Asiatic points forms a major part of the program of present national development.
A group of Chinese railroad experts recently visited the United States to study our rail systems in order to model their own along similar lines using standard equipment.
Moves Toward Industrialization
Another major field of activity is the exploitation of China’s natural resources with industrialization in mind. Manchuria has extensive deposits of coal as well as a great variety of ores including tin, copper, lead, zinc, antimony, tungsten, manganese and mercury. For many years China has supplied 60 to 70 percent of the world’s annual tungsten production. Both this ore and antimony are essential elements in the strong metal alloys vital to heavy industry. However, industrial efforts are handicapped
by a deficiency in petroleum deposits, limited to oil shales, for which a practical inexpensive method of utilizing has not been devised. Iron ore although found in many provinces is not sufficient in quantity or suitable in form to constitute the basis of large industries.
Many are of the opinion however, that what China needs is not industrialization and the founding of heavy industries, but modernization and large scale production of those items necessary to speed up the process of equipping the Chinese home and village with consumer goods and modern appliances such as water pumps, small sewing machines and farm tools.
The Sino-Japanese War found nearly all modern Chinese industry in such treaty ports as Shanghai, Tientsin, Hankow and other areas of the coastal provinces where foreigners resided and had their principal interests. Wealth and activity accumulated rapidly in these eastern regions while interior industry remained largely of an artistic nature practiced by small groups of artisans skilled in porcelain, silk or bronze work.	*
Western and southwest China, the Free China of the War, remained until 1937 much as it had been for generations, almost wholly agricultural except for the two cities of Chungking and Kunming. With Japanese occupation refugees dismantled machinery of flour and cotton mills, match factories and power plants in the east and transferred them by boat, rail and plane, or on the backs of men and beasts, thousands of miles from coastal plains to western mountains.
As many as fifty million people fled into the free hinterland in one of the greatest
migrations ever known. With this move inland about 2,000 cooperative industrial societies began to train workers and produce a variety of commodities ranging from cartridges to consumer goods. This activity opened up a new source of livelihood for the Chinese peasant who formerly had to look to the earth for his only sustenance. These new industrial workers have broken down many of the feudal guild systems which used to control industry and commerce and have been instrumental in giving women an independent source of income.
Educational Advances
Another step in the emancipation of Chinese women has been the introduction of a modern educational system patterned after western lines. Both male and female students are given equal opportunities and curricula include practical as well as classical courses.
China’s spoken language has many dialects unintelligible to each other. The nation is also shackled by a written language of tens of thousands of ancient ideographs incapable of expressing modern concepts. The method of writing in China has undergone no radical change since the invention of the brush in 220 BC, the invention of paper in 105 AD and the invention of block printing about 700 AD. Today Chinese scribes still copy laboriously one by one the ideograph characters (43,000) and typesetters handpick pieces of type to fill a galley of print.
In 1936 however, an American company invented an electromatic Chinese typewriter or Tienhwa as it is called capable of rapidly typing approximately 5,400 ideographic characters commonly used in writing Chinese. It has since become an essential fixture of every American office conducting business with Chinese merchants and is also used extensively in Chinese cities. Any advance facilitating provincial communication, will help the growth of national unity which is a prerequisite for better times.
Clipper Ships—Yesterday and Today
Our first contact with China came about through trade. As early as 1792 Yankee Clipper ships sailed to China by way of the South Sea Islands where they paused for pearls and sandalwood to exchange for tea and silks. Many Yankee boys had been to Canton who had never seen a city block at home. The Chinese were then as today excellent traders and were glad to exchange their tea, silk and porcelain for silver, kerosene, cotton goods, flour and glass.
The character of modern trade between the U.S. and China is essentially an exchange of American manufactured products for Chinese raw materials. The great difficulty lies in the fact that although her forty millions would like many things from the United States, this desire is only as profitable as their ability to pay for these goods.
China can only buy from the United States as she earns money from sales to us; but she has no ships, capital investments abroad or agricultural surplus to
SAMPAN. Some Chinese live all their lives on sampans like this one which comprise an important factor in China’s transportation.