PA/V AMFfííCAJV
World Airways Teacher	Aprii, i948
MARKET PLACE. The Indians of Guatemala regard the market place not merely as a place to sell their wares, but also as a social center and the place for exchange of news.
international air service was started with the inauguration of the Pan American’s route from Miami to Panama. This service, operated with efficiency, regularity and safety, was an important factor in stimulating Central America’s development of air transportation.
In 1931, Transportes Aereos Centro Americanos, known as TACA, was organized in Honduras. The founder concentrated on carrying freight, having available for this purpose a single plane. By 1935 TACA covered most of Central America including Guatemala. In its contract with the Guatemalan Government, TACA agreed to engage in the transportation of chicle, moving this export product from the remote Peten District to the seaboard. The company thus assured the Government of considerable revenue from export taxes on chicle, which previously had not been collected because of extensive smuggling.
Aviation has brought to Guatemala—and to all Central American Republics for that matter—low air freight rates, and has reduced also the transit time for shipments to the seaboard from the two weeks required by pack train to less than one hour by plane. Planes are also engaged in the transportation of large quantities of heavy mining machinery and supplies at rates.,so low as to lessen the need for the construction of roads and railways. Aviation in Central America is credited with originating the “Flying Tanker,” a plane especially equipped to handle oil in bulk.
Pan American Airways has participated in the formation of local companies in Guatemala and other Central American Republics. Aerovias de Guatemala is one of them, serving regularly a number of airports. Guatemala is an important air
junction point where Pan American World Airways routes from the North, Northeast, Northwest and South converge. Because of aviation this lovely country of the America has become the Mecca for American tourists.
Trade and Resources
Guatemala occupies a place of importance in the world of trade. The coffee it produces is unexcelled in quality and leads the nation’s export. Four fifths of an annual production of about 130,000,000 pounds go abroad. Other increasingly important items on the export list are bananas, sugar, cacao, chicle, rubber, hides, woods and dye woods.
A recent Guatemalan forestry trend is toward the cultivation of trees with special properties useful for industry. The ceiba tree is receiving wide attention as the source of “kapok” or “tree cotton,” which is increasingly in demand for insulation materials and other purposes. One United States company has about 200,000 ceiba trees under supervision in Guatemala.
The ceiba is a giant tree with thick, high, wide-spreading buttresses, and smooth, greenish-gray bark. The trunk is long, straight and round. Branches, starting near the crown, are typically whorled, and the crown itself is dense, wide-spreading, and generally flat or slightly domed. The flowers may be white or pink.
The kapok or silk-cotton is produced in a capsule about four inches long which also contains several small seeds. The tree frequently attains a height of 150 feet with a clean stem of 70 feet or more and as much as eight feet in diameter. The Mayas knew how to utilize the light and buoyant kapok to make their silky clothes. That’s why the ceiba is referred
to as the silk-cotton tree.
The jungle of Peten contains medicinal plants which modern science has been unable to put into use. The story goes that when the jungle air fields were being carved from the dense forests of the Peten Territory several workers were affected with a severe eye infection. It seems that it was caused by a tree whose sap is under considerable pressure so that when the bark of the tree is cut with an axe or a machete, the sap squirts out. If the sap gets into the eye of the worker its effect is similar to acid burn.
Doctors were flown to the jungle to care for the patients but failed. The workers begged the engineers to bring in tribal medicine men. A medicine man was flown to the spot and remained with the workers which cleared the chicle airports Dos Lagunas, Carmelita, Paso Caballos, and Uaxactun in the Peten of Guatemala. The doctors have not yet discovered the medicine man’s secret cure, because the Indians guard their secrets jealously.
Guatemala is endeavoring to improve her future sources of wealth. For a long time the Far East used to be the principal source of natural camphor, but in recent years several thousand young camphor trees have been established on a finca near Guatemala City.
Guatemala is a small country but rich in natural resources which are awaiting the adventurous men who look into the future with confidence.
Some Guatemalan Customs
One of the most popular customs in Guatemala is the evening concert which the local band gives in every city and town. Marimba and brass play on alternate nights, while the women stroll clockwise and the men counter clockwise. These concerts, of course, are not peculiar to Guatemala alone. In Chile the same custom exists. But Chileans call differently the “art” of strolling around the plaza. It is “pololear” for them.
Fairs in Guatemala seem to have no equal in the Western Hemisphere. Thousands of tourists know how picturesque and colorful a fair can be. Whether the fair is held in Chichicastenango, Tezal-tenango, or elsewhere, the pageantry is the same—a riot of color and gaiety. Indians will proudly wear their costumes of black, short, knee-length trousers with flaring side flaps intricately embroidered, bright-red sashes, short bolero jackets, and red head-dresses; and the women still wear the most elaborate “huipiles” and necklaces in Guatemala. These costumes can be seen in Chichicastenango which is about 104 miles from Guatemala City.
A Guatemalan friend boasts that a fair in Quezaltenango is still better. How is it better ?
“Quezaltenango,” he says with relish, “is the second largest town in my country. It is a commercial center 130 miles west of Guatemala City. Altitude, 7,690 feet. Climate, generally cool. There are many factories—shoes, textiles, cigarettes, and flour mills.”
This is very fine, I interrupt. But how about the fair?