Pa/v Ahí ericaiv
World	A/rmes Teacher
April, 1948
POTTERY SELLER. This Indian has been at the market all day and failed to sell all his wares, so is preparing to carry them home. He will bring them back another day, and will refuse to sell en route, because he wants to be sure to get back to the market.
atic bird just as the eagle is in the United States.)
That Guatemala is well known in this country can be ascertained by the many notices which she receives in the United States press. The fine climate of Guatemala has been so well advertised abroad that Lady Astor recently bought an estate there in order to spend three or four months of the year in the Central American Republic. It will be quite a change for the British Lady, from the cloudy humid sky of England to the bright and mild one of Guatemala.
Today air tours to Guatemala are made for you. For instance, Cook’s itinerary goes something like this:
On Tuesday a Pan American “Flying Clipper” takes off from New Orleans in the morning, flies over the Gulf of Mexico', and a few hours later lands in Guatemala City’s Aurora airport. On Wednesday you have a morning and an afternoon drive about the metropolis and its environs, visiting the places of interest—parks, lively markets, and the Cerro del Carmen which affords a splendid view of the city. On Thursday you begin a delightful motor trip into' the highlands. The first day takes you past fashionable Lake Amatitlan .... Palin, where a large Indian market is held under a large ceiba tree.... Santa Maria de Jesús, on the slopes of the volcano Agua ... and Antigua, where you see the colonial convents of an ancient Spanish capital. On Friday you motor through Chimaltenango, where a colonial fountain marks the Continental Divide .... arriving before lunch at Chichicastenango, where you stay two nights at the famous Mayan Inn. On Sunday, which is market day, you spend the morning viewing the thousands of Indians congregated in the great square, and witness one of the most colorful fairs in the Western Hemisphere. On Monday, you visit Lake Atitlan, with three volcanos rising from its shores. And on Tuesday you return to Guatemala City to take your plane which will bring you back to the United States.
It sounds simple, doesn’t it? And it is.
Education on the March
It is always difficult to estimate the education of a people by their literacy or the contrary. A case in point is the remark made by Lord Chesterton on Spain some years ago. One day the British scholar stopped at an inn near Toledo to get something to eat. There he engaged in conversation with some peasants who could neither read nor write. He must have enjoyed that chat because later Lord Chesterton said with admiration, “How enlightened these illiterate peasants are.”
In most Latin American countries the people seem to be aware of problems which anywhere else might be only known by intellectuals. That is why I usually take with a grain of salt statistical figures on illiteracy. At any rate, here are some facts which might be of interest. According to the 1940 census, 32.6 per cent of the population more than 7 years of age was literate. By the end of the 1943 school year enrollment was as follows: 140,736 students in 2,520 primary schools; 6,552 in 69 intermediate schools, and 594
in the National University.
Perhaps the most interesting work for children is done by the Casa del Niño in Guatemala City. Founded 27 years ago by women who actually scrubbed and cooked to carry it on, the three houses now get government aid and are second to none anywhere. Pre-school children for working mothers spend the day there; they are bathed, fed, and kept amused. If they are sick, they receive hospital care. If they need special diet, it is provided. They are happy and mannerly, like all Guatemalans. The mothers, who had to be begged to leave their babies at first, now eagerly attend Saturday lectures to learn how to care for them.
Radio also is doing a good job. I have heard on my short wave receiving set the educational programs broadcast during the evening. In addition, the Secretary of Education never fails to recommend to Guatemalan listeners who cannot write or read that they go to the free schools which offer classes for workers.
“Remember,” the announcer says, “your country needs good citizens, men and women who can vote and elect their own government.”
The radio always repeats this sentence: “The Guatemalan Government wants a free press, a free discussion of all issues of state so that the authorities may know what is wrong. Only by pointing out the
mistakes can they be corrected.”
Education goes still further. An efficient up-tO'-date Health Department is staffed by men educated abroad, especially in the United States.
The efforts of the Health Department are discernible everywhere. Cattle are inspected before slaughter. Food venders must wear caps and aprons and keep their wares screened. There is regular inspecting and grading of eating-places, hotels, and water-supplies Stringent measures have eliminated yellow fever. A vigorous war against endemic disease, especially a terrible eye affection which once blinded whole communities, has attracted worldwide attention. Clinical trains tour the country, as there are not enough doctors and nurses. Midwives must be licensed, and there is constant effort to give them some notion of sanitation.
Guatemala has still two million Indians who are as backward as their brothers in Bolivia, Peru and even Mexico, and who still live as their fathers lived before the Spanish conquest. But when you talk with a Guatemalan who has been incorporated into the society of educated citizens, he will impress you with his knowledge of world affairs, the width of his horizon, a perspective, possible only because he does live in a small country. And this is the man who will guide the future of his land.