.¿l/7id,
PUBLIC REUC’IS
Pa/v Amer J|J£ (JQPY
World Airways Teacher


IxpEWt*0
April, 1948	Published by Pan American World Airways	VOL. IV, No. 4
AIR TRAVEL: NEW TOOL FOR LEARNING AND TEACHING
By George Gardner
The current developments in air transportation which are of special interest to the teacher who recognizes that air travel not only is a lot of fun, but also is a means of enhancing professional qualifications, are:
1.	School systems and universities are recognizing the importance of travel by granting professional advancement credit and universities are beginning to award credit toward degrees for vacation time travel.
2.	The discussion group on Education and Aviation of the American Association of School Administrators, meeting in connection with the AASA convention at Atlantic City in February not only called attention to the value of and necessity for world wide travel by teachers, but in addition implemented its findings by setting up a real working committee to collect all pertinent information and report back to NASA with a view to giving the subject still more prominence at next year’s AASA convention.
3.	Tour operators have set up so-called “package tours” designed primarily for teachers, at costs which are in line with teachers’ means. For example: The National Educational Association this summer, for the third year, is offering to members especially arranged educational tours by air and by surface transportation.
4.	The expansion of air transportation now has reached a point where there is some air trip which any teacher can undertake with pleasure and educational profit— whether a short inexpensive flight, or a longer costlier one with more opportunity for learning about other people and their ways.
Tour Arrangements
In the Atlantic City meeting on Aviation and Education, with H. B. Bruner, Superintendent of Schools at Oklahoma City, Okla. as chairman, numerous ideas for encouraging air travel, and for bringing the overall cost of it down to the lowest possible level were advanced. Some of these proposals for the future will be set forth hereafter in this article.
Meanwhile, however, there are many intriguing opportunities for educational travel which are available right now.
One way of doing it is to plan one’s own trip, just as a doctor or lawyer or business man or woman might plan a vacation trip. Many teachers prefer it that way, and any Pan American ticket office or any travel agent will gladly help arrange a suitable itinerary.
But since that puts the burden of seeking out the educational values upon the

Organize an Air Tour Group; Travel as a Tour Conductor
You, working with a travel agent or a PAA sales office, can organize a tour group to any country served by the Flying Clippers, act as conductor of the tour, and travel without charge or at a reduced rate for your own transportation.
This is a standard arrangement available to any group, whether teachers, students or others.
Enclosed with this issue of World Airways Teacher is a business reply card which may be used to request information about organizing travel groups, or for other information about air travel.
(See also “Summer Schools Abroad” in the column Over the World on Page 2).
teacher, many educators prefer to join a tour arranged by a travel agency or by such an organization as the N.E.A., because that method offers them better opportunities to visit schools, museums, etc. in the countries to which they go, and has the very practical advantage of relieving them of the necessity for making hotel reservations and other related ground arrangements.
The NEA Division of Travel Service offers this summer a 22-day cruise by Pan American Clipper of the West Indies area with stops in Habana, Cuba; Port-au-Prince, Haiti; Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. The tour begins and ends at Miami, Florida, and the cost is $368. (or $390. returning to New York)
The established price includes all tour transportation expenses from tour meeting in Miami and return to Miami (or to New York) ; scheduled sight-seeing, transfer of passengers and baggage between hotels and carriers; all hotels; all breakfasts; 20 lunches or dinners with tips; tourist permits ; orientation sessions and planned social events and a $5000 accident insurance policy.	9
It does not include such personal services as laundry, tips for personal services and tips for meals not included in tour costs; 17 lunches or dinners; wines, liquors, bottled waters; theater or night - club tickets; personal taxi fares, or transportation between the teacher’s home and Miami.
All NEA members engaged in educational work are eligible for tour member-
41.. pbl	1
ship. If space is available an adult member of the immediate family of a tour member may join a tour group, provided such person joins the NEA.
At each of the four stops listed for the tour, arrangements have been made for sight-seeing excursions and for opportunities to meet local educators. In Habana, for example, the program includes an Orientation Session at the Instituto Cultural Cubano-Norteamericano, a reception for tour members at the Instituto and three sight-seeing tours in and outside of Habana. Similar arrangements have been made in Haiti, Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico.
Complete details may be had by writing to the Division of Travel Service, National Education Association, 1201 Sixteenth St., N. W., Washington, D. C. and asking for the folder on Cuba West Indies 1948 NEA Tours.
Educational Values
NEA has planned the educational tours with a real and practical emphasis upon educational values. As soon as a teacher makes an inquiry regarding a tour, a selected bibliography of the tour area is sent, with a recommendation that the prospective traveler acquire as much knowledge as possible of the life and history of the tour area, and the problems and achievements in relations between that area and the United States before leaving home.
Then, during the tour, orientation sessions are held at which professors and specialists in the countries interpret historical background, geographic features and other matters which are of interest from an educational point of view.
Itineraries are arranged so that major geographic sections in each country are traversed. Opportunity is provided to associate with persons of comparable educational and cultural attainments. Finally, when the tour has been completed, a detailed report of it is sent to each tour member. This report frequently is used by members as source material for writing papers and articles, which papers in turn are frequently used by accrediting agencies to evaluate the program and award credit toward degrees or salary increases.
NEA has announced that within two years it will be conducting tours to countries in both Central and South America, and that it is hoped a reciprocal arrangement can be set up shortly under which teachers from other countries may visit the United States with the same type of tour arrangements.
(Continued on Page 7)