2
Pan American
World AfRmrs Teacher
April, 1948
^gpeer' Pan American	;
® World Airways Teacher '—<*
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Enrique Portes, Editorial Consultant
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Educational Travel
This issue of World Airways Teacher might well be called the spring travel number.
We have tried to present some information about air travel opportunities for teachers this summer because it is seasonal from so many viewpoints.
To begin with, the calendar makes it seasonal. It is the time of year when all of us begin to think about our summer travel plans. That is true every year, of course, but in 1948 there are several other factors present.
One of these is the availability of space on the airplanes. All through the War, travel for pleasure and educational purposes was out, and even in the summer of 1947 it was difficult to book space on some routes. This year it should be possible for every one who wants to fly internationally to do so.
Another factor in this year’s teacher travel situation is the rapidly growing practice of allowing credit for travel. As pointed out in the article beginning on Page One, a number of universities now allow credit toward degrees for travel, and a number of school systems award points toward professional advancement and salary increases.
Still another factor—one less tangible than the others, but probably much more important—is the need for first hand knowledge of the whole world throughout the educational systems of our country.
In his speech to the Congress on March 17 President Truman warned us that we must pay the price for peace, and if we don’t we surely will have to pay the price of another war. The President was referring specifically to the need for Selective Service, Universal Training and the European Recovery Program, but the same principle could well be applied to some other methods of working for the peace, one of which is learning to understand the countries and the people of the world. And the best way to do that is to go and visit them.
It has always been the aim and desire of Pan American’s Educational Service to help teachers with their travel plans in any way possible, and in the future we hope that we can do even better in that respect.
We’d like to have suggestions from teachers as to how we can serve further in helping them with travel planning.
Summer Schools Abroad
There are more and better opportunities for study abroad this summer than at any time since pre-War years.
A survey of summer schools abroad by the Institute of International Education and reported in the Institute’s monthly bulletin, also in Scholastic Teacher of February 2 discloses that summer schools of interest to U.S. teachers will be in session this summer in Europe, Asia, Latin America and Canada.
The Institute’s listings of summer schools in Asia, Europe and Latin America is quoted in a new PAA Educational service pamphlet which will be sent free on request. Ask for “Organize an Air Travel Group”, or use the business reply card enclosed with this issue of World Airways Teacher.
What Tours and Where?
The typical teacher would like to take a planned tour once in three years (many would like to make it once a year). Average length of trip desired by teachers is four and a half weeks. Teachers generally are prepared to pay from around $265 to $415 for vacation travel.
At least half of the travel-minded teachers have in mind air travel to countries outside of the United States.
The foregoing, and other teacher ideas about travel were developed by Frank W. Hubbard, Director of Research for the National Education Association, by questioning a national cross-section of teachers at the NEA convention last summer.
Another trend of thinking disclosed by the survey was that about half of the teachers questioned were interested in obtaining college credit for their travel. Almost all wanted to see school systems accept travel as evidence of professional growth.
More Travel Abroad in Prospect
A substantial increase in travel abroad is in prospect for this summer, the New York Times reports.
An analysis of foreign travel prospects made by the paper indicates that the majority of summer travelers will be making their trips for pleasure. These prospective travelers make up 61.6 per cent of the total. Next largest group is that composed of persons who will travel for educational reasons, 15.2 per cent. Those who intend to go abroad for educational purposes outnumber even those who intend to travel for business reasons—8.1 per cent. English for Latin American Girls
From London, Canada, comes word of a school which is looking for Spanish-American and Portuguese-A m e r i c a n
women students who want to learn English.
Mother M. St. James, of Brescia Hall, London, Canada, in a letter to PAA’s Educational Director, says:
“This college wishes to contact twelve or fifteen Spanish-American or Portuguese-American women students who have completed their full college or high school work—and who speak little or no English.
“We offer to them OPPORTUNITY for a special three or four year university course which runs from September to June of each year and is completed with a B.A. degree of great value anywhere in the world.
“The feature of special value is the combination of learning English with university credits. In the past those who came north to learn the language spent one year—in or out of university—by which they gained no credits. This handicapped them so that they could not take the time for a degree, although a B. A. degree would have been a mighty help in their home countries—for teaching, for interpretation, for diplomatic dealing, for better inter-American understanding. Such bilingualism is invaluable.”
Please address inquiries directly to Mother M. St. James, Dean Brescia Hall, London, Canada.
Summer School in Mexico
Mississippi Southern College announces its first annual Summer School in Mexico this summer in cooperation with the College of the City of Mexico.
Courses in beginning and advanced Spanish grammar composition, conversation and commercial and business Spanish will be given, as well as courses in Mexican art, music, dancing, folklore, geology, geography and history.
Details may be had from Professor Melvin G. Nydegger, Director Institute of Latin American Studies, Mississippi Southern College, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
Easter in Bermuda
Bermuda will look like college campus this summer. The PAA representative in Bermuda advises us that bookings had been made in February for groups ranging in number from 15 to 85 from Barnard, Bennett Junior College, Bradford Junior College, Briarcliff, Burnham School, Connecticut College, Garland School, Gardiner & Skidmore College, Harvard, Mount Holyoke, Pine Manor Junior College, Miss Porters’ and Ethel Walker’s School, Sarah Lawrence and Smith.
G.G,