Pan American
World Airways Teacher	Aprii, ms
(Continued, from Page 7) countries visited. These offerings are too numerous and varied to describe in this brief article, but a PAA Sales Office or any travel agency can offer information.
Tours are merchandised on a basis comparable to groceries, or soap or wearing apparel. There are large companies which build up “package tours’’ by laying out itineraries and arranging for hotel reservations, sight-seeing trips and everything else needed by the traveling group. Smaller travel agencies serve as retail outlets for these tours. A tour may be purchased directly from the tour operator which organized it, of course, but in a town where the wholesale tour operator does not have an office, the local travel agency, acting as a retailer, can make the sale.
In other words, the teacher need not look upon the prospect of arranging for an air trip with trepidation, because the experts in the air lines and travel agencies are ready and eager to help.
To get back, now to the matter of credit for teacher travel by air or otherwise, the credit which may be obtained is of two types as already mentioned.
One form of credit is with the teacher’s own school system, and consists of credit toward professional advancement and promotion. It is the same general type of credit which is allowed for further academic training or for attendance at institutes or work shops.
Such credit is not available in every school system, but a survey by Frank W. Hubbard, Director Research Division of the National Education Association disclosed that 37 cities over 30,000 in population had set up requirements for continuous professional growth, and of these, 23 reported that travel experience was acceptable in partial fulfillment of the requirements. Six reported that they were considering the possibility of recognizing planned travel tours.
Each school system allowing such credits has its own requirements. Usually it is stipulated that advance notice be filed with the superintendent or a committee and that a report be filed at the conclusion of the trip. Some require a minimum in time or miles, a few require that the travel must be outside of the United States.
The other form of formal recognition is university credit.
The University of Indiana recently announced that it would grant university credit to teachers participating in the NEA summer tours. Teachers on tour can earn one semester hour per week up to a maximum of six. They are required to read specified materials, participation must be certified by the tour conductor and they must submit reports. The credits are transferable to land grant and most other colleges and universities. A fee of $5 for each credit hour is charged. The address for detailed information is Dean W. W. Wright, School of Education, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana.
As to university credit for travel in general, Dr. Hubbard in his survey asked 261 of the leading colleges and universities whether or not they gave credit for travel.
Only 196 replied. Thirty of them said “yes", and 166 said “no”.
Among those granting credit, 24 give it only in connection with their own travel programs, three accept the travel programs of other colleges, three give academic credit for travel sponsored by non-college agencies.
The matter of credit for travel is one of the items referred for study to the informal committee appointed by Dr. Bruner at the conclusion of the meeting on Education and Aviation at Atlantic City.
That meeting brought forth a number of other comments, some of which may well be summarized here.
The matter of cost is one of concern to everybody. On the subject of a possible discount to teachers, it was pointed out that if such a discount is set up for so large a special group as educators, this would mean that the other travelers who are not eligible for discount would then
be paying part of the cost for teacher travel, and that those who travel most by air would be assuming the largest amount of cost. The thought was advanced that if teacher travel is to be subsidized, it should be subsidized by all the people rather than by those who travel by air at regular rates. On this theory it would become a matter for governmental consideration.
Dr. Bruner put the thought into words for the discussion group when he said: “We can't wait for government subsidy. We must act now. We have groups that want to go this summer."
As indicated above, many of these groups will go places this summer, and air travel tours are still new enough that teachers who take advantage of them this year will be pioneers and will in that way gain an advantage that simply will not be there in future years when routine arrangements have been worked out for air travel of teachers on a mass basis.
LETS FLY TO LATIN AMERICA!
Pan Am erlca/v World Airways
''-'Ihe System of ihe^F/yiny Cf/ippers
Reprinted from The GRADE TEACHER Magazine
TEACHING UNIT. This is a reproduction of the cover of a new teaching unit on Latin America which will be sent without charge upon request to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North,
Long Island City 1, New York.