Pan American
Apra, 1948	World Airways Teacher	?
FIESTA PARADE. Highlights of a fiesta in Guatemala is the Dance of the Conquistadores. The masks and costumes represent the conquerors of another century. This scene was photographed at Momostenango.
AIR TRAVEL: NEW TOOL FOR TEACHING
“The market,” he answers, “is one of the most extraordinary displays of color and costumes in the Western Hemisphere. Costume designs representing a dozen 01-more villages may be seen any day in the week. Quezaltenango women wear full pleated skirts, “huipiles” embroidered in silk, and elaborate 10-yard hair ribbons, and always go barefoot despite the high-altitude chill.”
In answer to my question about the “huipiles” my Guatemalan friend explains, “It is a loose fitting blouse worn over the skirt.”
Being a poet, my friend turns to the beauty of a market.
“I always enjoy,” he says, “wandering through the bright stalls of gardens, honeysuckle and carnations and the heavy honey odor of overripe tropical fruits, with which mingle the acrid smell of smoke and the stench of pork grease from the open-air restaurants.”
With delight he describes the heaps of rose petals which are offered as food, the luscious mangos called the “apple of the tropics,” the cherimoya whose firm white meat, when chilled, suggests a combination of pineapple, vanilla and banana ice cream, the papaya, the avocado, so erroneously and disgustingly called, at times “alligator pear.”
And my friend adds, “How funny it is to see in the markets a peculiar breed of chickens with featherless necks. Have you ever seen one?” Since the answer is “no,” he suggests a trip to Guatemala as soon as possible.
Is it true that Guatemalans eat flowers? My friend smiles and goes into a long explanation. Why not? The maguey flower is really delicious, especially when it is dipped in thin butter and fried. “Now if you want a soup which will lower your high blood-pressure, you can prepare one with the “flor de quixtan,” he concludes.
It would be easy to continue mentioning amusing and interesting peculiarities of the Guatemalans. As a whole the people are friendly and “simpáticos.” They have a good sense of humor. Many cornflakes manufacturers would not like to know how Guatemalans call this delicious breakfast item. Here is the name but keep it a secret—“Alas de cucaracha” and it means literally “Cockroach wings.” And poached eggs? This is not too bad. They call it “huevos a caballo” that is, “eggs on horseback.” A hangover is called “goma” which is Spanish for “mucilage”—in other words, something that sticks.
And the Future?
Guatemala has a promising future both as a political unit and as a source of wealth. Its civilian President, Juan José Arévalo, is guiding the country toward stability and peace. There is freedom of press and radio, and a great desire to improve the education of the people.
Guatemala’s relations with the United States have always been friendly and there is no reason to believe that they will ever be interrupted. American visitors are always welcome there which is a sign of closer ties of real understanding and sincerity. Let us go to Guatemala .. mañana.
(Continued from Page 1)
As every teacher knows, tours for teachers are by no means new, but it is only in the past few years that such tours have taken to the air. In doing so they gain the advantage of using more time on the spot for observation and learning, less for getting from one place to another.
For example, Dr. Nora B. Thompson, Spanish teacher at Merion, Pa. is organizing an air tour to Guatemala and Costa Rica. This is Miss Thompson’s third tour to the area. Last year 28 joined her group, and she is prepared to conduct a group of similar size again this year.
This year’s study tour has been planned around the Summer School for North Americans at the Universidad de San Carlos of Guatemala City.
For details, send a legal size, self-addressed stamped envelope marked 1947 Study Tour to Dr. Nora B. Thompson, 116 Argyle Road, Ardmore, Pennsylvania.
Dr. Jose Sanchez of the University of Illinois offers a 70-day air tour of seven Spanish speaking countries including 45 days in Colombia and 25 days in other Latin American countries. This tour is under the sponsorship of the Universidad Nacional de Colombia, and is designed for students and teachers who wish to broaden their understanding of Spanish speaking people, their customs and manner of living. Members of this tour group have an opportunity to live in private homes where only Spanish is spoken.
The itinerary includes Cuba, Jamaica, Colombia, Venezuela, Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala and Mexico, and the all-expense rate is $1250, including air tickets, hotels,
meals, sight-seeing and the 15% U.S. tax where applicable.
An air trip to Puerto Rico for a workshop at the University of Puerto Rico designed especially for teachers in the areas of New York City where there are large numbers of people from Puerto Rico, is sponsored by New York University. University credit will be granted by New York University for the workshop which is designed to give teachers an understanding of the origins and backgrounds of the Puerto Rican students whom they teach.
Twenty-eight maintenance scholarships covering room and board have been made available by the University of Puerto Rico. Teachers holding them will pay New York University for nine points of credit at $13.50 per point, plus a $3. university fee. Cost to the teacher also will include $180. for round trip plane fare, plus $12. for a trip from San Juan, Puerto Rico to the Virgin Islands.
Several hundred applications for the maintenance scholarships have been received and they will have been awarded by the time this is printed but New York University will welcome inquiries about the workshop itself.
In addition to the tours designed especially for teachers* there are a wealth of tours available to the general traveling public which teachers can use for educational purposes by working out for themselves reading courses and personal programs for meeting educators in the
* There probably are other international air tours for teachers which have not come to the attention of World Airways Teacher. If organizers will forward information through the offices making their bookings, they will be described in the next issue.
(Continued on Page 8)