Pam American
April>1948________________World Alrways Teacher_______________
AN AIR VIEW OF GUATEMALA TODAY
By Enrique Portes
Scores of epithets have been used by writers after visiting the Republic of Guatemala. The most frequent ones—and fitting, too—are “beautiful land,” “quaint and beautiful country,” “picturesque paradise of the quetzal,” “fairyland of the marimba,” and so on.
Other writers interested in Guatemala’s past have delved with relish into her historical figures. The most commonly remembered is Doña Beatriz, Pedro de Alvarado’s wife. She was one of those unusual Spanish women who shared with the conquerors the adventurous life in the New World. She was a woman of high ambition, and she lived in a magnificent three-story palace built for her by the governor.
Governor Alvarado was killed in 1541, while away from his capital. When the news of his death reached Guatemala months later, nine days of rigorous mourning were proclaimed in the capital, and the cathedral was painted black inside and out.
But Doña Beatriz was not so deep in mourning that she could not see an opportunity. On September 8, 1541, she called the municipal officials to the palace and ordered them to appoint her Governor and Captain General of Guatemala. In signing the decree the next day, she wrote “The Unfortunate Doña Beatriz.” Then she crossed off “Doña Beatriz,” and the signature remained “The Unfortunate.” She was the first, and so far, the only woman ruler the New World has known.
This story frequently has been retold by novelists and poets. The sad part is that Doña Beatriz’s rule was short-lived. An earthquake and flood reduced Guatemala City to a heap of rubble and debris the following day (September 10, 1541). Doña Beatriz, her maids of honor, and others perished in the floods.
Another Guatemalan figure of historical interest was Justo Rufino Barrios (1835-1885.) Regarded as the Lincoln of Guatemala, Barrios as president in 1873 undertook many reforms of economic and political character which even today are considered daring.
He dissolved religious societies, exiled the monks and nuns, confiscated much wealth of churches and great families and weakened their power in every way. He promoted education and transportation and gave a great impulse to agriculture. Barrios was killed in battle leading a Guatemalan army to unite the Central American Republics into one country. Today his name together with that of Francisco Morazan is revered in Guatemala, and Puerto Barrios, the country’s principal seaport in the Caribbean is named for him.
Facts and Figures
Those who seek accurate information about Guatemala will find that the Dirección General de Estadística (National Statistical Bureau) is a reliable source. The population figures released by this office late in 1946 showed a total of 3,546,624 for the entire country. Of these about 64 per cent are full-blooded Indians,
the rest are mestizos and whites.
There are about 4,000 miles of highways in the country and of these, some 300 miles comprise the Guatemalan section of the Inter-American Highway (known also as the Pan American Highway.) The total railway mileage is 737, the largest portion of that being operated by the American-controlled IRCA (International Railways of Central America.) The system is narrow gauge, and the equipment almost toy-like, but its efficiency has been recognized by all.
Guatemala is one country where Mayan influence is still felt. This culture has continued among the Indians since the time of the Conquest. It is much in evidence in native handicraft. Many Indian communities with their Mayan customs and distinctive clothing, make Guatemala one of the most picturesque lands in the Hemisphere. Most of the Indians live in the highlands of San Marcos, Huehuete-nando, Quezaltenango, Quiche y Verapaz.
The Indians love to go to the market in Guatemala; it is their chief diversion. The same enthusiasm will be noted among Peruvian, Bolivian and Mexican Indians. They go to the market to buy and sell, not for money, but for the pleasure of exchanging news and gossip.
They go to the market to look at the colors and the goods, to worship in the church, and to mingle with their kind. That’s life to many of them.
They won’t sell their goods en route. The saving of steps and the assurance of disposing of their goods means less to them than the excitement of the market place. Among the Indians there is an
ancient superstition that it is unlucky to sell en route to the city. Father Duran, an early priest, said that if an Indian woman were asked, “Which will you choose, to go straight to heaven or to go to the market?”, she would say, “Let me first see the market.”
Guatemala boasts of having one of the most extraordinary tropical forests in the Western Hemisphere. It is the Peten Territory, the home of the chicle, the gum base of chewing gum. There can be found here mahogany, giant cedars, rubber, and a variety of wild animals and birds (over 900 species of birds), unexcelled anywhere else in the world. Peten is the natural habitat of the rare and exotic quetzal bird, the symbolic bird of the ancient Maya kings and the national bird of Guatemala today. (Incidentally, Peten is contiguous to British Honduras which Guatemala considers as hers, and Great Britain is determined to hold with the help of warships anchored near Belize.)
Quetzal, Bird and Symbol
The quetzal, one of the most unusual birds of Central America, lives in the Peten Territory. Guatemalan Indians from ancient times have revered this brilliantly plumaged bird. The quetzal has a tail about thirty inches long, of beautiful metallic green plumes. The body is silky green, and the head covered with bristling green hairs—the fuzzy-wuzzy head indeed is comical to any one but the natives, who worship the bird. The quetzal is now the national emblem of Guatemala and also the monetary unit. (In most South American countries the condor is the emblem-
GUATEMALA CITY AIRPORT. The administration building at Guatemala City’s airport is deservedly regarded as one of the most beautiful buildings of its type in the world.