WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 12	STUDY UNIT
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
NORTH POLE - Sd. 10 min. b & w -McGraw-Hill Textfilm Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York City.
Begins with a documentary account of the explorations of the North Pole; then discusses the strategic importance of the region and describes the geography, as well as the present activities in this region, and stresses the importance of polar routes in today’s world.
ARCTIC BORDERLANDS IN WINTER -Sd. 10 min. b & w — Coronet Productions, 65 E. South Water St., Chicago 1, 111.
In Upper Manitoba, South of the Arctic Circle is the borderland between arctic tundra and evergreen forests. The severe climate in these arctic regions make strong demands in adaptability to the environment upon the people and animals living there. ANGOTEE, STORY OF AN ESKIMO BOY
—	Sd. 32 min. b & w and color — National Film Board of Canada, 1270 Sixth Ave., New York.
This prize-winning documentary portrays the life of Angotee, an Eskimo boy, from the time he is born until he leaves his parents’ igloo with his own wife and first son. It shows the games of his childhood, how he accompanies his father on the hunt, how he shoots his first seal and other aspects of Eskimo life.
ESKIMOS — Sd. 10 min. color — Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, Illinois. A good human survey of the Eskimo way of life. It illustrates how problems of food, shelter, and clothing may be solved, and portrays many activities of the Eskimos.
SPRING COMES TO THE SUBARCTIC
—	Sd. 15 min. Color — University of Minnesota, Audio-Visual Education Service, Westbrook Hall, Minnesota 14, Minnesota.
This film was produced to show plant and animal life in the subarctic, and to portray the changes which occur as spring comes to this region. It illustrates the meaning of timperline or “tree-line,” shows what happens as we progress from below to above. Close-ups of the many unusual birds and animals found here.
ESKIMO SEA HUNTERS (Northwestern Alaska) Sd. 20 min. b & w — United World Films, 1445 Park Ave., New York City.
Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates. Life in an Eskimo village, where the chief occupation is the hunting of animals, fish and birds, is a continuous battle against the cold climate and the shortage of food, shelter, fuel and clothing. In this film we learn how the Eskimos live and go about their daily tasks. There are beautiful shots, highlighting the landscape of northwestern Alaska.
THE MIRACLE OF THE MIDNIGHT SUN — Sd. 20 min. b & w — color —
Almanac Films, Inc., 516 Fifth Ave., New York City.
The film tells the story of the white reindeer and how God created the Midnight Sun. The setting for this legend of the past is Lappland, bordering on the Arctic and Atlantic Oceans, far north of the Arctic Circle.
ALASKA - OUR PIONEER HERITAGE — Sd. 20 min. color — Ideal Pictures Corp., 65 E. So. Water St., Chicago, 111. Produced for Pan-American World Airways, this film presents a vivid picture of present day life in Alaska. America’s last frontier is growing. We are shown scenes of the development of gold mining, of fishing and of fishing canneries, and of the forest industry. There are beautiful photographic scenes, depicting ice-cappecl Mt. McKinley, the National Parks, Glacier Bay and the lonely beauty of the Arctic Circle.
NANOOK OF THE NORTH - Sd. 55 min. b & w — Athena Films, Inc. 165 W. 46th St., New York, N. Y.
Photographed, on-the-spot, in the Hudson Bay territory by Robert Flaherty, this outstanding documentary film presents the commercial life of the Eskimos and their struggle for existence — how they build an igloo, fish and hunt, their huskies, and also their life in summer, the Kyaks, fur trading, etc.
LAND OF ICE - Sd. 20 min. b & w -Franco-America Distribution Center, 934 Fifth Ave., New York City.
The Arctic expedition of Paul Emile Victor is pictured. The old cargo ship with its equipment and crew of scientists is described before the expedition sets out for the glacial area of Greenland. There is a good presentation of the huge ice cap.
AIRPLANE CHANGES OUR WORLD MAP — Sd. 15 min. b & w — Encyclopedia Britannica Films Inc., Wilmette, 111. Although this film emphasizes the problem of map projection and distortion, the sequences — presenting early maps and globes as well as those showing distance contrasts between points on the globe, by land, by water and by air travel routes — these sequences may well serve as resource material for study of present day air travel.
Filmstrips
ARCTIC WILDERNESS SERIES - 47 frames — silent with captions — color. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111. These filmstrips are composed of color photographs and are based on Walt Disney’s production of “The Arctic Wilderness.
ARCTIC FOXES AND WOLVES. This filmstrip tells the story of the Arctic wolves and foxes’ life at the beginning of the mating season, through the summer, and until the parting of the family at the beginning of winter.
THE NORTHLAND. This filmstrip describes the three regions of the Northland: The Polar ice cap, the tundra, and the Subarctic. These regions are presented in terms of their differences in appearance, climate and types of plant and animal life to be found.
ARCTIC TUNDRA — 73 frames silent with captions, color. Life Magazine, Filmstrip Division, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York City.
One of the “World We Live In” series this filmstrip, by photographs and paintings, provides a view of the tundra’s surface characteristics, and a panorama of arctic plant and animal life.
COLD POLAR REGIONS - 45 fr. si with captions, color — McGraw Hill, Textfilm Division, 330 West 42nd St., New York — Produced by Popular Science, this filmstrip tells of the discovery of the polar lands. It describes the land and the way of life of the Eskimos — how they fish and hunt, their winter and summer homes and how they live on the trail.
ESKIMO SEA HUNTERS - (Northwestern Alaska) 46 frame si with caption b & w — United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York.
Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates, one of the “Earth and Its Peoples” Series, this filmstrip is based on the 16mm motion picture of the same title described above.
THE ARCTIC — 65 frame si with captions, b & w — Life Magazine Filmstrip Division, 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. Based on articles which have appeared in Life Magazine, this filmstrip describes the geography of the Arctic region, the attempts to explore it, and tells of its increasing importance for its natural resources, as a scientific laboratory and as a strategic military area.
LANDS OF FEW PEOPLE - 51 fr. si with captions, color, Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111.
Produced to correlate with Rand McNally “Geography of American Peoples”, this filmstrip presents a description of the Far North, and shows the life of the Eskimos and Indians in that region.
ALEXANDER MACKENZIE - 35 fr. si with captions b & w — National Film Board of Canada — 1270 Sixth Ave., New York City.
The story of Alexander Mackenzie’s explorations to the Arctic and Pacific Oceans, depicting some of the hazards encountered during his explorations.
Recordings
Eskimo Music of Alaska (p. 444)
Lappish Joik Songs from Northern Norway (p. 1007)
Music of the World’s Peoples, Volume I, (P504 A/B, Record Cut 15, Iceland) Folkways Records, 117 W. 46th St., NYC, 33-1/3 rpm longplay records.
In this “geophysical year” what could be more appropriate than to hear the authentic songs and music of the people of the Arctic region, so authentically documented in these record albums, and to learn something of their culture and customs.