BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THE ARCTIC
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is the world’s “top”
taking on such great importance today?
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	There has been a great deal of publicity about flights over “the top of the world”.
2.	Natural curiosity leads to the desire to know about this land of the unknown.
3.	Scientists have noted that much valuable weather information should be gathered here during the International Geophysical Year.
4.	So many interesting books have been written on expeditions to the Arctic region.
5.	The Arctic region may become very important in safeguarding the peace.
6.	There are so few unexplored frontiers remaining and one hears so much of the great potentialities of the Arctic.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	Approach:
1.	Use current news articles about the starting of flights over the Polar route.
2.	Go over the reasons given for setting up weather information centers here during the IGY.
3.	Use information that students may have gathered from relatives in the service in Alaska and Iceland.
4.	The names Peary, Byrd, Amundsen, and others, have become familiar. Stories of their expeditions could be used as a start.
5.	A book listed in the Bibliography of this issue woidd be a good way to arouse interest.
6.	Use of any of the visual aids listed would create a desire to know more.
B.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What are tire potentials of the mining, farming and fur industries of this region?
2.	What changes will take place if air routes bring many people in and out of the polar region?
3.	Why is this region so important in case of war?
4.	How do explorers and leaders of expeditions in the 19th and 20th centuries compare with those of earlier centuries?
5.	What can be learned from the lives and customs of the nomadic tribes?
6.	What can be done to improve living conditions in this region so that more people will desire to try it?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies: what areas are included in the “top” of the world; Arctic Circle; zones; Pytheas, a Greek, first arctic explorer; others such as Frobisher, Davis, Franklin, Parry, Amundsen, Larsen, Nares, Peary, Byrd, Ellsworth, Wilkins, Cook, Bennett, Lindbergh, Blair; valuable furs, ermine, marten, sable, seal; whales; polar bears, sheep, reindeer; Greenland, world’s supply of cryolite; minerals, coal, copper, gold, uranium, pitchblende, radium; nomadic tribes, Lapps, Samoyedes, Chukchee; life of Eskimo; location of main
bays, islands, straits, such as Hudson Bay, Baffin Island, Hudson Strait,
Davis Strait, Greenland, Spitsbergen; forest products; interest of various countries such as Sweden, Norway,
Russia, Argentina, British Empire and United States.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words listed in this issue; origin of the term arctic; words peculiar to the region such as pack ice, permafrost, drift ice, tundra.
b.	Literature: read some of the books
listed in the Bibliography of this issue. Accounts of the various expeditions will be exciting, interesting and informational.	B.
c.	Oral communication: there should be much discussion since so much of this region is new; recount some
of the exciting experiences; ask c. questions of informed personnel; read interesting parts of books and articles to the class; report information you have gathered; discuss the potential economic advances in this region; dramatize some of the incidents.
d.	Written communication: write for more information; outline and organize your material; prepare reports for class presentation; invite other classes to share with you; review a book or a movie; write stories imagining that yon were part of an expedition; plan a trip via the new polar route.
3.	Science: this would be one of the most important areas of this unit of work since there is so much that is new and much still to be determined; climate variations, around the North Pole the ice never melts, not all cold and barren, Arctic Ocean prevents extremes,
9/10 free of ice and snow in summer;
March to September sun shines on all
parts for at least part of day; tundra;	y
ocean currents, west wind drift, North Atlantic drift; rain instead of snow in midsummer at North Pole; June 22, all daylight; December 22, all darkness; six months daylight from March to September, the sun never sets; six months darkness; arctic tern, sea bird, migration champion of the world, has flown a greater distance than any other bird; lichens, food for reindeer; caribou, musk oxen, wolves, bears, reindeer, squirrels, foxes, minks, many strange and small animals; seals, walrus, whale, porpoises, 120 kinds of fish; reason for so much marine life; snowbirds, ravens, sandpipers, auks, terns, birds in all areas; vegetation, flowers,
900 varieties; fossil ivory; obstacles to work and travel, winter ice, swamps, fogs; jet streams; strophs or Foehm storms in Greenland; changes in concepts of direction and time; magnetic north pole; polar grid system; changes necessary in plane structure and in pilot and passenger comfort because of intense cold.
4.	Art: Hudson Bay Eskimos carve figures of fish, animals and Eskimos out of stone, bone and ivory, seldom more than one foot high; scenes made by
Page 9
children after information has been gathered.
5.	Mathematics: changes in distance and time brought about by flying the polar route; graphs showing the value of resources from Alaska compared to the purchase price; graphs showing present and potential outputs; plan mileage charts from your home town to various places in the Arctic; estimate costs of passenger travel and cargo.
6.	Health: the diets and living habits of Nomadic people are interesting to study; study of what intense cold does to food and vegetation; necessary difference in food, shelter and clothing.
Skills: there is so much that is new in this unit that it would be wise to learn to organize and catalogue information; outline for presentation.
Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
1.	An interest in new developments taking place in the Arctic will be aroused.
2.	An understanding of the value of some of the information being gathered during the IGY.
3.	A realization of the fact that new frontiers are waiting to be developed.
4.	A realization that all exploration was not confined to centuries in the past.
5.	An understanding of the reasons for life as it now is in the Arctic.
6.	An interest in attempts to make this region suitable for increased use.
7.	An appreciation of the information gathered by expedition members in recent years.
8.	An understanding of what this region can mean to future economics and peace of the world.
9.	A realization of the change the new flight paths will make in transportation patterns and in recognized ports of entry and exit.
SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
Things to Do:
1.	Invite airline personnel who have flown the polar flight to speak to your class.
2.	Collect information from people who have been to Alaska and other parts of this region.
3.	Make charts to show the longest and shortest days; the times of darkness and light.
4.	Tell some of the things you learned from a hook you read.
5.	Outline the new material you gathered from a movie or strip film you saw.
6.	Collect and mount pictures.
7.	Make a scrapbook of pertinent materials.
8.	Keep a bulletin board of up-to-the-minute news.
9.	Try some science experiments suggested from material gathered on the reaction of cold, fog, and other elements, to food, people and other objects.
10.	Make charts listing the varied animal, plant and marine life.
11.	Write for more information.
12.	Plan a trip departing from the West Coast over the “top of the world” to England.