PA.N AMERICAN
Page T-4
ROUND SOUTH AMERICA By George Gardner
(Continued from June issue)
This article is condensed from a report to educational travel organizers on educational travel possibilities in South America. The portion published in June covered Mexico, Guatemala, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Chile. Copies of the complete report are available, and there is no charge. Ask for “Round South America, a Report to Educational Travel Organizers.”
ARGENTINA
Department of Education. Talked to Renato Volker who is Assistant Director General, Public Education. He’s for it (visits of our teachers and college students, that is) and gave us the name of Julio Cesar Goncedo, Director General of Culture, who will be the man for detailed arrangements. When we started to make arrangements to call upon Sr. Goncedo, we discovered that he was to be married that very afternoon. So we deferred to the bride. However, the arrangements can be made.
Instituto Cultural Argentino Norteamericano. This is a bi-national organization — one of thirty in Latin America (some are in cities away from the capitals). I’ve described others above. The one in Buenos Aires is said to be the oldest, and perhaps the largest, with 4300 Argentinians of all ages learning to use the English language.
Universidad de Buenos Aires. Dr. Alejandro Ceballos, Rector of the University of Buenos Aires, will be pleased — enthusiastic might be a better word — to have visits by your serious groups. He simply wants ample advance notice, a matter that is important to all of these folks in educational institutions which you’ll visit.
Travel Souvenir Note: — At a souvenir shop in the galería (same as arcade) off Florida Street I bought for my son a miniature of a gaucho’s bolas. The bolas consist of three leather ropes joined at one end, and with balls at the other. The miniature I brought home is boleadoras. Bola is Spanish for ball.
The gaucho (cowboy) uses the bolas to catch rheas (Argentine ostriches). He hurls the contraption at the rhea’s legs — the balls cause the ropes to wind around the legs and Mr. Rhea abruptly sits down and waits for the gaucho to come and get him.
URUGUAY
Departing Buenos Aires I was back on Pan American — after my journey down the west coast of South America and across the Andes and the Pampas via Panagra — and I made the 45-minute flight to Montevideo aboard PAA 202, which had just begun operating with dual configuration. That’s first class and tourist on the same flight, making it possible to choose either service for any departure.
Alianza Cultural Uruguay — E. U. de América. This may be your best point of contact with educators in Uruguay — one of the best certainly. The Director is Dr. Paul Schurman, and he’s been there ten years, boosted enrollment in the English language classes from 180 students to 3,000,
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
and has seen affiliates established throughout the country at 12 different locations.
Crandon Institute. This is a private school, Board of Missions of the Methodist Church — Mrs. Edith Ross is Director. It has 1,030 students, of whom 829 are Uruguayans, 75 Norteamericanos, and 36 Argentinos, and the rest Europeans and Asiatics. The course of study follows the official Uruguayan pattern, and graduates are in demand as employees at the U. S. Embassy and U. S. and British firms, because they are completely bi-lingual.
Universidad de Montevideo. The university has about 8,000 students. Like so many institutions of higher learning in Latin America, it is located right in the city (like some of our U. S. universities, too). We hadn’t time to tour all the schools, as they are in scattered locations, but we did visit the School of Architecture, which is a beauty. Uruguay is proud of it, and its faculty and student body. The graduating class in architecture tours Europe every year to see and study the classic examples of architectural achievement of the past, and of the present, too.
BRAZIL
Rio de Janeiro
I flew from Montevideo to Rio on Flight 202, which once a week operates as the de luxe flight — the President Special. But it still has a tourist section — all the 202 flights now, every day, are set up in dual configuration, with the Rainbow Tourist section forward and the President First Class section aft.
Palacio do Catete — At the office of the President of Brazil we saw Dr. Paschoal Carlos Magno, who is Cultural Attache to the President.
Dr. Paschoal is a respected leader of the students of Brazil, has been a diplomatic officer abroad and has served his government in many ways, and at this time is busy with work which is closest to his heart — projects for students. He earnestly desires you to send college boys to Brazil. He’ll see that they have enjoyable, meaningful experiences at the lowest possible cost. There are special restaurants where students may eat their meals at half the usual cost, and these restaurants are located throughout Brazil. Special rates can be had on the railroads. At my request Dr. Paschoal sketched out a suggested itinerary — for short excursions Minas Gerai§ (mines), Petrópolis (Peter II pioneered immigration of farmers), Teresópolis (resort center) and Itetiaia (military academy) and Sao Paulo. Then, for more extensive excursions the state of Paraná, booming coffee and lumbering area, and the farthest south Brazilian state, Rio Grande do Sul, with its cattle ranches and rice plantations.
Ministry of Education. Dr. Anisio Texeira is Director of the Instituto Nacional de Estudos Pedagógicos. In his office I crossed once again the trail of Dr. Read of the Comparative Education Society. Dr. Read’s group will be in Brazil for five days, with a program set up by Dr. Teixeira. His office is geared up to do this sort of thing, and will do it for your group.
Instituto Brasil Estados Unidos. This is
the bi-national agency for Rio — very much like others I visited in other capitals, and have described above. Its director, LeRoy James Cunningham, Jr., discussed ways and means of sending groups of Brazilians from the Institute to the United States. Want a group exchange program? Here’s an opportunity.
Sao Paulo
Too often, when we plan travel to Brazil, we think first of Rio and neglect to consider the important, fast-growing coffee and beef center of Sao Paulo. I almost made that mistake this time, and then scheduling trouble bearly finished me off. But I made it by doubling back from Rio on Panair de Brasil — a comfortable one hour flight — and arrived there Saturday evening.
It’s a new city — old historically, to be sure, but the real growth has taken place in recent years, and most of the business buildings are new. A lot of them aren’t even finished yet! Sao Paulo nestles on a collection of hills, some of the downtown streets cross over others on overpasses. Climate is cool and invigorating.
Uiáo Cultural Brasil-Estados Unidos.
This bi-national cultural center is the largest of those with which I had contact — 6,000 students studying English now, and plans for a new building which will permit enlargement to 12,000 or possibly 15. A sizeable number of foreigners attend to study Portuguese. There are classes from 7:39 in the morning until 10:00 at night, including a devoted group studying intensively and working for the Michigan certificate. Sixty teachers are employed, including two “grantee” teachers supplied by the U.S. The institution is entirely independent, supported by student fees (unless you want to be real technical and say those two grantee teachers constitute outside support).
A visit to this institution would be a great thing for any group of teachers in the U. S. — it’s been done, and Sr. Pupo bids you welcome.
VENEZUELA
For educational travel, a stop-over on a Round-South-America expedition would be a very good, but still better possibility would be something concentrating on Venezuela. It could include Caracas and some of the other cities, and a visit to such attractions as the Cerra Bolivar, or Iron Mountain (solid iron), Angel Falls and Venezuela’s terrific oil fields. But in my opinion the most attractive possibility is a boat trip up the Orinoco River. This would take you to the “Green Mansions” country, to primitive Indian Villages, and provide a series of field days for naturalists.
My last bit of sightseeing, and a fitting capstone to it all indeed was a breathtaking trip on the Teleférico (cable car) to the fantastic resort hotel at the summit of Avila, a mountain overlooking both the city of Caracas and the ocean on the other side of the ridge. The Teleférico is new — opened less than a year ago. Hotel Humboldt is newer still — just preparing for its official opening when I was there.