PAN AMERICAN
...„ - y
Edwin C. Musick Medal
RUN YOUR OWN QUIZ CONTEST
Would your class enjoy a quiz contest based on thirty years of international air transportation?
Such a quiz is presented below. If you use it in your class room, send us your one best paper. Be sure it includes the 100-word statement about the value of international air transportation.
The best 25 entries received by World Airways Teacher will be awarded a sculptured medal of Edwin C. Musick. The original plaque from which the medals are made is in the National Air Museum, Smithsonian Institute, Washington, D.C. This medal is one of the aviation series issued by the Medal-of-the-Month sponsored by Miss Felicity Buranelli. Captain Musick was the pilot for the first scheduled U.S. international air mail, in 1927.
Entries will be judged by a committee headed by Miss Buranelli. None can be returned. Send them to:
Miss Felicity Buranelli, Medal-of-the-Month 15 West 67 Street, New York 23, N. Y.
QUIZ CONTEST
International Air Transportation
1.	What was the route of the first scheduled U.S. international air mail?
2.	Who flew “North to the Orient”?
3.	What ocean was first to have scheduled air line service?
4.	What is the shortest route from California to England?
5.	What new type of Flying Clipper will he introduced in 1959?
6.	Write a statement — 100 words or less — telling why you think it is important for us to have international air transportation.
Answers: 1. Key West, Florida, to Havana, Cuba. 2. General and Mrs. Charles A. Lindbergh. 3. Pacific. 4. The Great Circle route via Baffin Island. 5. Jet-type Clippers.
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
(iContinued from page T-2) over the ocean on schedule at one time. These were the big land airplanes that were first ready for regular use a couple of years earlier. They were more than twice as big as the familiar DC-3s used by air travelers within the United States.
During World War II, Pan American Airways made more than 15,000 ocean crossings. Of these 9,500 were complete crossings of the Atlantic. The rest were over the Pacific.
Returning to peace time basis, the Flying Clippers converted to a landplane operation. Flying boats were used earlier, because there were no airports at some of the places to be served, but there were suitable water areas. During the war many new land airports were constructed — many by Pan American. So the boats were retired, and their places taken first by Douglas DC-4s and Lockheed Constellations, then DC-6s, DC-7s and finally DC-7-Cs, the latter being known as the Super 7’s.
The Super 7’s, in their turn, now are to be replaced. In December of 1958 PAA will receive delivery of its first jet airplane —- a Boeing 707. During 1959 it will receive and put into service a fleet of jets — forty-four in all — including Boeing 707s and Douglas DC-8s.
Other post-war developments have included:
Tourist service, at a fare substantially less than first-class cost, which PAA calls its “Rainbow” class service. PAA had the first tourist service, on the New York City-Puerto Rico run, and has extended it to all the heavily traveled world routes.
Wide-spread public acceptance of international air travel. PAA in 1956 carried 2,592,000 passengers. They flew more than three billion revenue passenger-miles and the average length of a trip was 1,306 miles. About three quarters of a million persons flew the Atlantic in 1956 on eleven foreign-flag and two American-flag air lines. The Clippers carried 243,000 of them.
Another military air lift. When United
Page T-3
Nations forces were sent to Korea a special air cargo service across the Pacific was needed. PAA established it, with other air lines assisting as sub-contractors.
Addition of new routes. Service to Africa, introduced during the war as described above, became a commercial route. Atlantic and Pacific services were augmented, and PAA became first to fly around the world.
These post-war developments, and others, contributed to the growth, in thirty years, from an air line operating one airplane 90 miles from Key West, Florida, to Havana, to an international system with 64,085 miles of routes, employing 21,349 employees to provide air transportation carrying capacity of 724 million ton-miles, which was the total for 1956.
INTERNATIONAL GEOPHYSICAL YEAR
The Arctic, like the Antarctic at the bottom of the world, is at present playing an important role in a coordinated research program known as the International Geophysical Year. A large part of the United States and Soviet efforts are concentrated in the North Pole region. The Scandinavian countries and Canada are also playing important roles.
Two focal points of the United States program are the Geophysical Institute at the University of Alaska, in the Town of College, and McCall Glacier, an ice river snaking through the northernmost mountains of this continent, the Brooks Range. So remote is this range that for many years no one bothered to give names to either the glacier or the peaks that surround it.
At College, a multitude of instruments record the strange, sun-induced pulsations that occur in the earth’s magnetic field, in its crustal electric currents, in the aurora draped overhead and in the changing layers of the upper air. Analysis of the results should show in what ways the earth is linked with the sun.
STUDY UNITS
To order your set of World Airways Teacher Study Units, including:
□ GROUP I ) ALASKA, AUSTRALIA, GERMANY, INDIA, JAPAN, PAKISTAN, $1.00 )PERU, PHILIPPINES, SOUTH AFRICA and UNITED KINGDOM
I ABC COUNTRIES (Argentina, Brazil, Chile); BENELUX (Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg); THE CARIBBEAN; CENTRAL AMERICA; FRANCE; HAWAII; IBERIAN PENINSULA (Spain and Portugal); ITALY; MIDDLE EAST (Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Iraq); SCANDINAVIA AND FINLAND.
plus a binder in which to keep the reprints, and in which to collect study units from this and future issues of World Airways Teacher, send the coupon below, enclosing One Dollar for each group in cash, check or money order payable to Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Educational Director Pan American World Airways P.O. Box 1908, Grand Central Station New York 17, N. Y.
Please send me “World Airways Teacher Study Units” in binder . . . Q Group I, Q Group II, for which I enclose One Dollar for each.
Name___
Address
City___
Zone.
State