BY FLYING CUPPER TO
THE ARCTIC	Pages
THE TOP OF THE WORLD
by Enrique Portes
For scheduled air transportation, the important thing is to have the shortest route between the points that are to be connected by air service. And since the greater part of the land area is in the northern hemisphere it is not surprising that some major air routes traverse the North Polar area.
It was obvious to Pan American that this was so as soon as planning for world-wide air routes began. The famous Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson, began preparing reports on the Arctic for PAA in the 1930’s. General Lindbergh’s flight “north to the orient”, and the portion of his exploratory flight across Canada and Greenland which was part of his long aerial journey, with Mrs. Lindbergh, around the North and South Atlantic Oceans, was undertaken for Pan American and resulted in valuable basic data.
It was necessary to have full data about conditions in the far north to plan the services that were contemplated — especially information about weather. But inauguration of such service had to await the development of aircraft capable of undertaking the flights.
When they were ready, and it came time actually to inaugurate service by way of the Arctic regions, long range capability and other advances in aircraft design had gone so far that the Polar flights actually are not much different than any others. As a passenger, looking out the window, you may see snow and ice instead of ocean, but you will see neither if there is a cloud layer below the aircraft, in which you might just as well be flying anywhere in the world insofar as appearances are concerned.
But a flight on the Polar Route, whether in actuality, or in imagination as in making use of this study unit, is an object lesson in geography which is as up-to-date as anything you’ll find.
To fly across the top of the world is no longer a figment of the imagination, a figure of speech. It is a reality, a fact which can be ascertained — personally — and enjoyed. For this is a flight of never-to-be-forgotten excitement — the chance of sighting lakes and lands and bays, the names of which have been seen by many of us only in geography books: Hudson Bay, Ungava Peninsula, Baffin Island, Frobisher Bay, Davis Strait and Greenland — and the chance of sighting icebergs in the waters below. And while the airplane speeds across the skies we wonder about these icebergs, children of glaciers, born when a moving river of ice reaches the sea, we think about their sizes and shapes, drifting slowly southward to dissolve in the warmer waters to the south. We are flying over the top of the world!
In ancient times the known world centered around the Mediterranean Sea, the Mare Nostrum (Our Seas) of the Romans. Today the gravity of civilization, with its highly developed culture and power, is centered around the Polar Sea. In terms of modern intercontinental communication, the Polar Sea — known also as the Arctic Ocean — has become the Mare Nostrum of air transportation, for the airplane, unlike surface transport, can take the shortest route north of the great circle — between two points and fly over it.
To understand all this we must change our concept of the geography of the world and obtain a truer picture of the geographical relation between the continents. A long time ago Greenland was the stepping stone to the New World in the Norsemen’s wandering migration. Later for many centuries the need for short trade routes from Europe to Asia sent men in quest of the northeast and north -
west passages. Today the Arctic has become a link between continents, a stepping stone in the development of air transportation, for the shortest air route from America to Europe lies across the top of the world. This route shortens this distance by hundreds and hundreds of miles, and it is as important to the airways as the Panama and Suez Canals are to ocean navigation.
The Vastness of the Arctic
The vast regions of the Arctic are better known every day. We know the Arctic is huge — its lands and seas total more than seven million square miles, twice as much as the entire United States. In the Arctic regions, dramatically, the horizon recedes into the immense distance and the sky arches hugely above the endless expanse of frozen plain. The Arctic is not a homogeneous region. Northern Siberia is very different from Spitsbergen, the island group north of Scandinavia. Greenland is generally very unlike Alaska. Within Alaska itself the northern slope differs from the interior, and within the interior the mountainous Brooks Range area is different from the Yukon Flats. It is rather risky to generalize about the Arctic. Various parts of it contain different climates, terrains, animals, vegetation, colors, peoples and cultures.
But if it is true that many things are not alike in each part of the Arctic, it is true also that some things are similar. Scientists tell us, for instance, that the hours of daylight and darkness, while different from southerly latitudes, operate throughout the Arctic in an orderly, predictable fashion. They also tell us that everywhere in the Arctic when the weather is fine there is a great clarity of atmosphere such as is not encountered elsewhere—at least, not north of the equator.
There is another peculiarity which seems to be uniformly common — the difficulties of radio reception in that region. The Eskimo language, in spite of minor dialectical differences and the great distances that often separate one group of Eskimos from another, is basically the same language from Siberia to Greenland and from Greenland to Alaska.
We must point out likewise that the Arctic contains within itself two distinct climatic zones. One is the polar region proper which embraces those parts of the Polar Sea, Greenland and a number of other partly glaciated islands where snow and ice never vanish; the other is the tundra, where for two or three months out of twelve the surface of the land turns green.
The word “tundra”, we are told, is of Lapp or Finnish origin, but it has been incorporated into many other languages with many shadings of meaning. In the widest international sense it defines the endless reaches of bleak, treeless plains encircling the earth between the Polar Sea and the world tree line, overlying most of northern Canada, Siberia, Russia, the Scandinavian countries, part of Alaska and the islands above the northern continental coasts. It exists only in the north. There is no tundra in the Antarctic.
Another peculiarity uniformly encountered
ALASKA—Eskimos at Kotzebue—twenty miles north of the Arctic Circle, take their positions for a native dance.