BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
THE ARCTIC	Pages
quires great skill and the pioneers are not many. It began in 1897 with S. S. Andrée, the first of the polar aviators, who tried to guide his balloon, the Eagle, from Spitsbergen to the North Foie. It was a fatal attempt. His body and the bodies of his two companions were found thirty-three years later. During all those years their tragedy remained a secret buried with their diaries in the ice.
On July 27, 1931, Charles and Anne Morrow Lindbergh started on the flight for Pan American which Mrs. Lindbergh chronicled in her “North to the Orient” book. The flight by Lindbergh was in his capacity as technical adviser for Pan American, and was for the purpose of surveying the Great Circle or shortest route to the Orient, by way of Alaska.
In 1933, the Lindberghs flew around the North Atlantic. They flew this route for the purpose of studying the bases which might be used and the conditions which would be encountered along the various possible air routes between America and Europe. Lindbergh pointed out that the great distances between land on all routes south of the Arctic and the difficulties of climate and short hours of winter daylight on Arctic routes had combined to delay the beginning of scheduled air services between the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. He believed that the development of aircraft had reached a point which permitted commercial transoceanic flying.
Lindbergh noted that where distances between land are the shortest, the climatic conditions are most severe. Hence the great advantage of the Greenland route from many standpoints had to be weighed, according to him, against the extreme climate, while the attractions of a more southerly route had to be largely discounted due to the greater distances between land. His reports on those flights are still a valuable contribution to aviation, for he foresaw the possibilities of future flights across the north of the world, with the highest degree of efficiency. And this efficiency is what makes air service over the north of the great circle possible.
In his capacity as technical advisor to Pan American, Lindbergh on this mission, was a member of the “Jelling” expedition, to the Scandinavian countries via Greenland and Iceland. This was one of the first long transocean flights in the interest of an airline for the purpose of checking commercial flying possibilities. The flight was made in a Lockheed Sirius. The S.S. Jelling was chartered as a supply ship for the flight, with Pan American’s Major Robert A. Logan, an early surveyor of the Canadian Northwest, in command.
The Jelling took observations for possible air base sites. Meanwhile Lindbergh surveyed Greenland to as far north as 74 degrees, and criss-crossed down to the southern tip of the island. He also surveyed in Iceland, briefly investigated the Faroes and Shetlands, and went on to visit likely airbase sites in Western Norway. He flew over southern Scandinavia, the Baltic Sea, the Gulf of Finland, the Leningrad and Moscow, and returned by France, Spain, Portugal and a southern route.
Capt. Charles Blair, in May 1951, landed at Ladd Air Force Base in Fairbanks, Alaska, to complete the first solo flight over the North Pole in a single engine plane from
Norway. He made that flight in 10 hours and 29 minutes. Capt. Blair’s unexpected arrival was quite a sensation, for he had flown without having made any radio contacts. During his journey the temperature ranged down to 25 degrees below zero. He flew at 15,000 feet altitude after leaving Norway, but crossed the North Pole at 22,000 feet.
Capt. Blair carried with him the first polar airmail — some 3,000 letters to be auctioned off in New York for the benefit of the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund. His great experience in aviation, widely recognized by all, contributed to his success over the Pole. Capt. Blair had won the Bendix race twice and in January, 1951, had set a record for a New York-London flight with 7 hours and 48 minutes. He had served with the United States Navy and flown some 3,000,000 miles, spending some 18,000 hours in the air with U.S. commercial airlines, including Pan American World Airways.
The explorations and studies of that region have not come to an end. The interest shown by the great powers in the Arctic has increased. The Soviet Union has undertaken many scientific studies of the Arctic and has announced further scientific observations in 1958 at its arctic stations and points in the central Arctic Basin.
In May, 1925, Amundsen tried to fly to the North Pole from Spitsbergen. Though the airplane was damaged, the flight was continued and later was forced to land about 120 miles from the North Pole. After three weeks of trying to take off they finally succeeded, and returned to civilization.
Admiral Richard E. Byrd with Floyd Bennett flew from Spitsbergen to the North Pole and returned in fifteen and a half hours without incident in 1926. He was in fact the first to reach the Pole by air.
Tire same year Amundsen, Ellsworth and Nobile flew from Spitsbergen over the North
Pole to Alaska in the dirigible Norge. Nobile crossed the North Pole in 1928 in an airplane and crashed. Amundsen trying the rescue by plane lost also his life in the attempt. Sir Hubert Wilkins was another explorer of the Arctic. A pioneer in the method of air exploration, he flew in 1928 from Point Barrow, Alaska, to Spitsbergen, and in 1931 he headed a submarine expedition to the Arctic regions, an exploit which is depicted in his Under the North Pole (1931).
The United States has established bases on the Greenland Ice Cap. It is constructing the DEW (distant early warning) radar line along the ring of the North American continent, and during the International Geophysical Year will investigate by scientific methods certain atmospheric conditions in the Arctic.
The arctic regions are no longer remote areas isolated from the rest of the world. They are today the crossroads for world commerce and a factor in world domination. There are hundreds of radio and weather stations around the Polar Basin, and the numerous airfields constructed along the rim of the Polar Sea are necessary links that will safeguard tomorrow’s airways across the Polar Regions.
Yesterday's Dream Is Today's Reality
The Polar route is no longer a dream to be desired. The flights to the West and to East are over the top of the world! The new PAA Clipper flights will speed passengers between the London and Paris gateways and the great West Coast centers in less than twenty hours. This is the route of travelers seeking a new experience in flying. An aura of adventure surrounds the taking of a transpolar trip. It is an adventure — a safe adventure — made possible thanks to the brave pioneers who have given us so much knowledge about the Arctic regions.
ALASKA—The Clipper Gem of the Sky is shown at Juneau Airport, with Mendenhall Glacier in the background.