BY FLYING CUPPER TO
THE ARCTIC	Page/
the Arctic Circle, and these mines should eventually supply a great part of Northern Scandinavia and Northern Russia. In Alaska, a coal mine at Cape Lisburne, well north of the Arctic Circle was worked to supply whaling fleets around 1885 but it has fallen into disuse with the abandonment of the whaling industry. The natives of the northern coast of Alaska mine coal at Wainwright for their own use and to sell locally to missionaries, government schools and traders.
Indications of oil have been found in many parts of the Arctic. The United States Navy has recently set aside vast oil reserves in Arctic Alaska and both private prospectors and representatives of large oil companies have staked claims east of the Government reserve. These claims are near Cape Simpson which, except for Barrow, is the most northerly cape in Alaska. No large Arctic deposits of iron ore are known to exist but there are iron prospects in many places. Copper fields, which lie between Bear Lake and the center of Victorian Island in a district roughly 200 miles square give promise if the world’s need of copper increases or as the spread of settlement to the country makes mining more feasible. There are also copper prospects in other parts of the Arctic. Quantities of gold, silver, platinum and tin have also been found in the region.
A more fundamental resource than oil or coal is the vegetation of the Arctic which makes food production possible. The coniferous forest extends beyond the Arctic Circle as much as 100 miles in certain river valleys in Canada and even farther in Siberia. Trees one hundred feet high are found well north of the Arctic Circle. Grass covers all lands not so high and mountainous as to be covered by snow on the continental and insular portions of the Arctic. There are at least ten times as many kinds of flowering plants as non-flowering varieties. There are a few portions of the Arctic where cereals can be profitably cultivated and still others where garden vegetables will grow. But as far as can be seen the chief thing to do with Arctic soil is to permit the continued growing of what already grows there and to make economic use of it by converting it into meat, hides and other animal products.
The reindeer, domesticated in the Old World since prehistoric times, is the most profitable animal in the Arctic. No one knows how many of these animals really exist in the region but in Arctic Siberia single owners have herds numbering from five to ten thousand head. Grazing resources of the Arctic and Sub-Arctic Alaska are estimated to be adequate for three to four million reindeer. Cattle, sheep, horses and goats can be raised in many parts of the region but under present costs and prices it would not pay. The reindeer pays handsomely as it needs no barn for shelter, no hay for feeding and no protection from wind or weather.
There has been some discussion of domesticating the musk ox, called ovibos, because they feed on certain Arctic vegetables which reindeer do not eat. Heavily-maned musk oxen, as many as 100 at a time, still roam the frozen islands north of the Canadian mainland. Ovibos beef is the same as ordinary domestic beef in color, flavor, texture and odor. Ovibos wool is of the finest quality in the world. It retains heat; can be woven;
is easy to bleach and dye; will not shrink; and is softer than cashmere. With Ovibos domesticated the economic potentialities of the Arctic are greater, but with only the reindeer there seems little doubt that the grasslands will be colonized eventually. In most cases mining will develop after the ranchmen have occupied the grazing lands but in some cases, notably with oil, mining will precede colonization.
The reindeer may be the most important. Arctic animal, economically, but the region’s theoretical king is the great white polar bear which roams the region alone preferring to keep to the edge of the pack-ice in his migrating habits. But bear tracks have been seen as far north as the 89th latitude — almost to the North Pole. Weighing about a ton, the polar bear is as supple as a tiger and can swim for hundreds of miles in open water if necessary. In stalking seals he is capable of great stealth, advancing only a few yards at a time and then remaining absolutely still, one paw hiding the black spot at the tip of his nose.
There are untold numbers of seal of the ringed, bearded and fur varieties in the Arctic Ocean. Below the water’s surface in wintertime seals keep four or five breathing holes opened in the ice spaced about a mile apart. In the stomachs of captured seals have been found the bones of fish man has never seen. Some three and one-half million fur seals congregate on the Pribilof Islands in the Bering Sea off the Alaskan Coast every summer. The value of furs taken from these islands over the past ninety years is many times the price paid to the Russian Government by the United States when Alaska was purchased in 1867. The walrus moves south from the Arctic Ocean through the Bering Strait in the fall. Some fifteen feet long and weighing more than a ton they use their big tusks to heave themselves upon the ice and to dig out mussels from the bottom of the sea.
The explanation for the abundant marine life which exists in the Arctic Ocean is that the polar basin serves as a huge reservoir for nitrogen and phosphates. Where the ice melts as it drifts south, chlorophyll is formed transforming the chemicals into tiny substances on which the majority of fish feed. Some of the world’s largest fisheries, such as Lofoten off Norway and the Iceland, Greenland and Newfoundland banks are located where polar currents meet warmer water.
Other wildlife of Alaska and Arctic Canada include the Alaskan brown bear on the Kenai Peninsular which may attain a height of nine and one-half feet and a weight of 16,000 pounds. The Dali Sheep of the Alaska range are the only wild sheep in existence weighing well over two hundred pounds. But the strangest animals of the Arctic are the smallest — the millions of lemmings, shrews, voles and field mice and other rodents who live on the brink of the Arctic Ocean. Unable to survive in temperatures lower than 16 degrees above zero F. they live beneath the snow separated by only a few feet of porous snow from the temperatures of 50 below.
The Arctic is a land of many strange things. Direction disappears at the North Pole. Flying to the North Pole a plane moves due North. The moment the Pole is reached and passed, it is flying due South. East has become West, and West has become East. At the Pole itself there is no North, East or West, — only South. Time in the conventional sense of minutes and hours, also vanishes. The sun rises at the Pole on March 21st, then circles the sky until September 21st. Because the only direction at the Pole is South, the sun is always in the South. During polar twilight periods, the sun is below the horizon and cannot be used to take a fix. The sun’s rays however, are still strong enough to blank out the stars, so pilots cannot get an astral fix either. Meridians, the imaginary north-south
Photo from Black Star
GREENLAND—This fisherman is sitting in his kayak, a boat whose top is completely covered, except for the cockpit, and used for both work and sport. This fisherman can turn his kayak around 16 times without a pause.