WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
in the Arctic is called by scientists “permafrost” — that perennially frozen subsoil belonging to the family of arctic phenomena new to most northern travelers. Permafrost is so extensive throughout the north that its southern boundary is often used to define the southern boundary of the Subarctic. Where it occurs, only a layer of the topsoil above it thaws in summer. Below that, it remains frozen hard as concrete year after year.
The depth of permafrost, according to scientists, may range from a few inches to 2,000 feet, but whether the layer is thick or thin, it effectively prevents underground drainage. Because rain and surface waters cannot penetrate downward, they remain on the surface of the ground forming, literally, millions of lakes. We are told also that wherever permafrost occurs — and it is estimated that it underlies one-fifth of the land of the world — the landscape has a typical permafrost look.
A traveler who peers downward from his airplane and sees that more than half of the land below is made up of innumerable lakes of every size and shape, can safely say that permafrost lies below it.
Scientists have reason to be grateful when they discover permafrost, especially the paleontologist who studies animal and vegetable life of ages earlier than our own. Permafrost provides scientists with a gigantic deepfreeze museum which has captured and preserved the mammoths of other ancient animals that roamed the earth millions of years ago. Vegetation which may now be extinct, but once flourished as food for the mammoths, has been discovered too.
Paleontologists have found in Alaska more than twenty species of mammals, including those one might think of as tropical sorts, like camels and elephants. These animals have been dug up, thawed out and studied. Siberia’s permafrost has given to the world huge tusked mammoths, some with the meat still edible and hair still intact, although they perished millions of years ago.
The knowledge about the vast regions of the Arctic increases year after year. Everything we know today about the geography and nature of the Polar Sea has been dangerously and laboriously gathered over the past century by a few incredibly determined and courageous pioneers. For in ancient times the scholars imagined that beyond the regions inhabited by man there was a realm of darkness, and a fog where land, sea and sky fused together into a fluid mass ending in the abyss at the edge of the earth.
Explorers of the North
The existence of the frozen sea to the north was known to the ancient Greeks. Pytheas, the Greek, sailed through the Pillars of Hercules in the year 350 B.C. According to the legends he reached Iceland, which he named the “Ultima Thule”, and may have seen the pack ice east of Greenland in the fog. The Vikings probably touched the fringes of the frozen sea on their voyages in the ninth and tenth centuries and encountered the pack ice. In a story written around 1250, the unknown author gives a vivid description of the pack ice and its drifts, and of the formation of icebergs.
During the centuries that followed, the Arctic remained a mystery turning back cle-
KOTZEBUE, ALASKA—An Eskimo girl clad in the traditional reindeer skin parka.
termined seafarers who dared to go beyond “Ultima Thule”, the last point among the known lands. Only at the end of the nineteenth century the veil of the central Arctic Ocean started to lift, thanks to the efforts of men such as Nansen and Peary. But the heart of the Polar Sea continued to be a mystery. Knowledge was hard to accumulate and remained incomplete as long as men had to travel on the surface of the earth. Nansen’s account of his journey on foot toward the Pole in 1895 makes one wish Nansen had wings to fly across the frozen plains. With the development of modern long-range aircraft that dream is a reality and the north Polar Basin is opened and exposed today to the curiosity of man.
The saga of the central Polar Basin began with the drift of the Fram under Nansen across the Polar Sea in 1893-1896. Utilizing the experience gained by two other explorers, Nansen sailed his ship from Norway north to the New Siberian Islands where it was frozen. For the thirteen men on board, it was the beginning of a thirty-five months’ drift which was to take them across the Polar Sea until they escaped from the ice northwest of Spitsbergen on August 13, 1896.
During the long months these men struggled against the bitter cold, they were forced to eat some of their dogs, but continued to advance to the north. Having reached 86° 13' N., 95° E., Nansen turned back. It was a dramatic retreat — hunger, cold, darkness.
By a strange coincidence, just as they were about to sail across the sea to Spitsbergen in their kayaks, they met the British explorer Frederick Jackson north of Cape Flora on June 7, 1896. Nansen brought back with him a great deal of scientific information and observations about the temperatures and salinity of the water, the biology of the Polar Sea, the distribution of the ocean currents, the formation of ice and the effect of wind on the movement of sea ice.
While he was retreating to his island shelter, another retreat was taking place on the opposite side of the Pole. It was Robert E. Peary’s race against hunger and death across the northern Ice Cap of Greenland.
Peary (1856-1920) had in 1881 entered the U. S. Navy as a civil engineer and for several years served in Nicaragua making surveys for the Nicaraguan Canal. Peary’s early life helped to prepare him for explorations in the north. He became interested in Arctic
explorations and made a trip to the interior of Greenland in 1886. In 1891 he led an expedition to northwest Greenland but broke his leg and had to return to his base.
In 1892 he set out once more across the Ice Cap and reached the northern limits of the inland ice of Greenland. Then he went east to the mountains forming the limit of the Ice Cap, and on July 4 he looked down from Navy Cliff into Independence Fjord, and discovered Pearyland beyond it.
The following year he went back and remained until 1895 but Peary could not go beyond his previous trip. In 1898 he went again only to be carried back to the base, where eight of his toes were amputated. Other expeditions took place with little success.
With courage and will undaunted by disappointment and by harsh arctic experiences, Peary set out in 1908 for his last and successful quest for the North Pole. From Ellesmere Island, he set out on March 1 across the ice to the Pole, with his negro companion Matt Henson and four Eskimo helpers. Peary and his companions made the final dash for the North Pole which was reached on April 6, 1909, at ten o’clock in the morning. They spent thirty-six hours on the Pole, then started the return journey on April 7, and reached land at Cape Columbia in sixteen days.
Peary had reached his goal, but on his return home he learned of the prior claim of Dr. Frederick A. Cook, who had been ship’s surgeon on Peary’s expedition of 1891-92. A blitter controversy followed. Though Dr. Cook fought to the end of his life, not without considerable support, to substantiate his claim, the United States Congress recognized Peary’s achievement — which later scientific investigations have also verified — and tendered him its thanks in 1911, the year in which he retired from the Navy with the rank of Rear Admiral. Robert E. Peary continues to be one of the great American explorers of the world.
Almost at the time in which Peary’s achievement was flashed across the world, Roald Amundsen was preparing another expedition. He had already conquered the Northwest Passage —the northern sea route from the Atlantic to the Pacific, thus bringing the epic of the Northwest Passage to a victorious end after four centuries of search and sacrifice. In July of 1918, Amundsen sailed from Norway. In September his ship, the Maud, passed Cape Chelyuskin in Siberia, and fixed its position as the most northerly point of Asia. Amundsen spent two winters north of Siberia, and reached Nome in the fall of 1920. Thus, he was the first man to make both the Northeast and the Northwest Passage.
On May 21, 1937, a squadron of Russian aircraft took off from the Franz Josef Archipelago for the Pole, and landed Papanin and his three companions on an ice floe in the vicinity of the Pole. For 274 days they drifted in zigzags with the current. When in February, 1938, an icebreaker found them, as they were drifting into the Atlantic Ocean east of Greenland, they had covered a distance of twelve hundred miles, and had made many hydrological, magnetical and meteorological observations.
Polar flying with landings on sea ice re-