Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
THE ARCTICS RESOURCES:
MINERALS, ANIMALS, SHORT CUTS FOR AIR TRANSPORT
by Lou A. Phillips
Although the people of ancient times had no actual knowledge of the polar regions, the Greeks through astronomical speculations, came to the conclusion that north of the Arctic Circle there must be a midnight sun at midsummer and no sun at midwinter. Outside of these deductions the general view was that the polar north belonged to the inhabitable frozen zones of the earth.
Strangely enough these facts represented the general sum of knowledge of many people about the northern polar regions until the dawn of the Air Age. True, there were many explorers who pierced the Arctic, but their activities were regarded as mysterious adventures rather than as practical investigations. As long as the steamship, dependent on navigable waters, was our chief means of transportation our location relative to the rest of the world was eastward toward Europe and westward toward the Orient.
The airplane, however, follows the shortest route spanning all surface obstacles. With polar obstructions overcome a new conception of distance and of relative positions of land and sea areas came about. This new perspective shows the Arctic Circle as a crossroads of the Northern Hemisphere which includes about two-thirds of the earth’s land areas, nine-tenths of its population and most of the leading nations of the world. The entire hemisphere had become one land mass clustered about the North Pole and linked by the Arctic Ocean.
The Arctic Sea covers, roughly, over 5,000,000 square miles. Beyond the European, Asian and American mainlands which border its shores lie various islands and island groups on the Sea’s wide continental shelf. Most of these islands which include Greenland, Spitsbergen, Franz Josef Land, Novaya Zemlya and the Canadian Arctic Isles are relics of more extensive land areas and show geological continuity with the nearest continental land.
No islands are known to lie in the deep polar basin and there is little likelihood of any existing. Two-thirds of the Arctic Sea is covered by drifting pack-ice which is formed by the freezing of surface layers during autumn, winter and spring. A small part of the ice comes from glaciers but this berg ice is distinguished easily by size and structure from sea-ice. Pack-ice seldom grows thicker than six to seven feet in one year but yearly accretions have been known to attain fifteen feet or more. All polar ice is in motion even in midwinter and lanes and pools frequently appear between the floes. The center of this sea-ice is called the Pole of Inaccessibility and is located at 84 °N latitude and 160°W longitude.
The phrase “Arctic Region” is a term applied to the ocean and land areas around the North Pole where characteristic polar conditions of climate and the like occur. The Arctic Circle is drawn at 66°30'N but this has no geographical value as a boundary. A more
understandable delineation is the area north of the limit of tree growth, although exceptions do exist. Although the broad outlines of the physical geography of the Arctic Region are known, much has to be done in filling in the details. In ice covered lands the geological structure can only be inferred from marginal rocks and in few Arctic lands does the snowfall allow geological exploration except for a few weeks in summer.
The original people of the North of Europe are the nomadic Lapps who live by fishing and reindeer breeding. Further east in Russia and western Siberia the Samoyedes follow the same mode of life. They also have small settlements on Novaya Zemlya. In eastern Siberia the chief Arctic people are the Chukchee, reindeer herders between the mouth of the Kolima and Bering Strait, but other tribes touch or occasionally visit the northern coast. American Indians wander north of the Arctic Circle in Alaska and Canada. Eskimo extend from eastern Siberia and Alaska to Ungava, Labrador and Greenland. They appear to be dying out by contact with civilization in spite of the protective measures of the Canadian and Danish Governments. Practically all of the Eskimo or Arctic Highlanders north of Melville Bay have Danish blood in their veins. There has never been a native population in Spitsbergen, Franz Josef Land or the new Siberian Islands.
In Arctic Alaska the coldest weather known has been recorded in the Yukon Basin; in Canada it is in the Yukon Territory; and in Siberia it is in the province of Yabutsk. All of these places however have been inhabited for a quarter of a century or more by nonnative populations who are not known to have been materially discouraged in their work by the mere disagreeableness of the climate although they have been handicapped by the frozen ground and in other things that result directly from the cold. Arctic winters are longer than those of the most extremely cold places now inhabited by prosperous and contented people such as North Dakota in the United States and Manitoba in Canada for example. They are also a little colder but are less stormy and have lighter snowfall. Arctic summers although shorter are almost as hot in places. It would seem that the same sort of people who are willing to live in Dakota or Manitoba might be willing to live in the Arctic in the future provided equally profitable livelihoods could be earned there.
Facts seem to indicate that ranching and mining will provide basic opportunities in the Arctic. It is now known that coal is almost as likely to be found in the Arctic as in tropical or temperate lands. Seams of coal of varying quality have been reported by most Arctic explorers. Stefansson found coal in all but two of the islands north of Western Canada. Coal of a quality equal to the best Welsh has been mined for several decades in Spitsbergen some 500 to 600 miles north of
ALASKA—Mt. McKinley National Park is the locale of this picture, which shows Wonder Lake, 85 miles from Mt. McKinley.