WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 8
STUDY UNIT
lines used by geographers and navigators to mark off world time zones, all come together at the North Pole and promptly lose their significance either as time boundaries or navigational aids. Then too, the magnetic North Pole, one thousand miles south of the geographical North Pole, causes compasses in the Arctic either to point due south all of the time or to fluctuate widely.
To solve the compass problem a special polar path gyroscopic instrument was developed which, although complicated in makeup, is essentially a direction keeping device which enables the pilot to keep his proper direction. It has a flywheel that spins like a top and works independent of the earth’s magnetic field. A special Sky Compass was also developed which uses the reflected twilight of the sun, called polarized light, to give a pilot reading. The disappearance of direction at the Pole was solved by the development of a polar grid system which is not dependent on standard north-south lines. The main avenue of the polar grid is the line that goes from London across the North Pole to the Aleutians and on down the South Pacific. The other lines run parallel to it. The North is called Grid-North, the direction from Europe to the Pacific and it is called North even after a plane has passed the North Pole and is flying down toward the Pacific. With North thus fixed, Grid-South, Grid-East and Grid-West fall in place and stay there.
Clipper travelers, mail and cargo are now flying “over the top of the world” from the Pacific Coast to London, England. Daily Pan American World Airways polar flights leave from the West Coast cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Portland and Seattle. Service has also been authorized, although not inaugurated as yet, between the West Coast and Tokyo, Japan via the Great Circle Route. The polar service from the West Coast to London represents a saving of 1,074 miles from Seattle; 1,013 miles from Portland; 659 miles from San Francisco; and 432 miles from Los Angeles. The savings in time however are much greater than indicated by mileage differences.
The best transcontinental and transatlantic flights are both overnight services. A passenger arriving in New York in the morning off crack transcontinental nonstops usually has to wait until late afternoon to depart for Europe. The savings of the direct service are from five to fifteen hours, or from a two-night trip to a one-night trip. Approximately 50,000 people flew from the West Coast to Europe in 1955 and with direct service these numbers are bound to increase substantially. All Clipper flights offer both tourist and first-class accommodations with a ratio of about one-third first-class to two-thirds tourist-class seats. Flights are terminating in London initially but they will soon be extended to other European Cities. The maximum advantages of the Arctic route from the Pacific
Coast are realized on flights to the northerly portions of Europe. Pan American is the sole United States-flag carrier permanently certificated to the United Kingdom and is the only United States airline serving Brussels, Amsterdam, Berlin, Hamburg, Copenhagen, Helsinki, Stockholm, Ostro and Keflavik, Iceland.
It is anticipated that Clipper ships will carry about 23,000 passengers over the polar route during the first year of operation. Flights in 5,000-mile range Douglas DC-7C equipment permit one-stop service to Europe refueling at Sandrestrom in Greenland which is almost directly on the Great Circle course. Some of the time however, flights from Europe will be operated on a non-stop basis.
The Scandinavian Airlines System is presently operating between Los Angeles and Scandinavia via an Arctic route and a bilateral agreement between the United States and the United Kingdom permits a British airline to operate between London and San Francisco and beyond by such a route. In addition, a Canadian airline will shortly start service from Vancouver, British Columbia to Amsterdam over the Polar route. German airlines also have the right to fly a similar route between the West Coast and Europe.
The question of who owns what at the North Pole has never been solved. Canadian Government maps show as Canadian everything north of Canadian land all the way to the Pole. United States Government maps show no such Canadian sector and claim no American sector for the United States north of Alaska. Russia neither claims nor disclaims anything. The United States Air Force has run daily trips from Alaska to the Pole for data for years. Year-round weather data is the purpose of collecting weather and other also collected from permanent Arctic weather stations. Actually the United States Air Force had the only aeronautical charts known to be in existence of the vast polar area. Information was extracted from these charts which was necessary for civilian flights over the region and made available for other nations to use. The United States also has a series of floating camps on ice islands at various sites in the Polar region. The Russians also have a series of such camps. Because of the perpetual movement of ice in the region it is impossible to say just where any one nation’s bases are at a particular time and no specific information is being released by any government.
The high Arctic has the best flying weather in the world with light winds, low humidity, infrequent clouding and little rain or snow. Clipper passengers will look down on the paths of explorers from Cabot and Bering to Andree, Peary and Amundsen who over five centuries opened the way to the North Pole and across the Northwest Passage. The route which they follow in the air will be based on flan American World Airways twenty-four years of pioneering experience in Arctic operations. Actually the Airline’s early experience in Alaska was broadened by participation in explorations in Labrador, Greenland and Iceland in the 1930’s preliminary to establishing the first North Atlantic scheduled service in 1939. From their comfortable seats aloft it will look easy ... It wasn’t . . . But nothing worthwhile is ever easy.

Photo from Black Star
GREENLAND—Icebergs are formed when vast chunks of ice break off ’glaciers, into the sea, and many of them, like those in this photo, are from the glaciers of Greenland.