PA.IV AMBRICAEtf
Page T-2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1957, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(iContinued from page T-l)
S-42, the Martin M-130, and other airplanes.
On June 18, 1937, Pan American inaugurated its service to Bermuda, the first leg on the mid-Atlantic route to Europe. The same summer, the company’s flight crews completed survey flights over both the mid-Atlantic and the northern Great Circle routes to Europe.
On May 20, 1939, Captain A. E. LePorte of Forest Hills, Long Island, lifted the Yankee Clipper from the waters at Port Washington, Long Island, and arrived at Lisbon the following afternoon, 26 hours and 54 minutes after departure. Next day the Clipper went on to complete the first scheduled air mail flight to Marseilles. On May 27, she was back in Port Washington, and the first commercial airplane round trip flight over the Atlantic was complete in her log book. The race to make the United States first on the trans-Atlantic route had been won. The amount of mail carried — 1,804 pounds eastbound. — contrasted with later loads of up to 13,000 pounds on one trip.
First Passenger Service
On June 28, 1939, the Dixie Clipper, carrying 22 passengers, took off from Port Washington, Long Island, for Lisbon and Marseilles, to inaugurate the first regular air passenger service from New York to Europe.
The Clippers had only a brief summer of peacetime operation before war erupted in Europe, and this situation upset all traffic calculations. Mail carried multiplied about ten times over expectations to an average of about 3,000 pounds per crossing. The weight rose until a load of 13,620 pounds (about half a million letters) was carried on one trip. In six months of 1940, 80,000 refugees crowded into Lisbon seeking transportation overseas. Diplomats, generals and leaders of the United Nations had to dash abroad hastily. War correspondents for press and radio, photographers and government officials all got in line for the first available space.
Workmen stripped off luxury equipment to make possible the carrying of more passengers and cargo. Maintenance procedures were streamlined to reduce turnaround time to the minimum.
The giant Clippers, painted a dull, wartime gray, flew the vast unmai'ked ocean lanes in secrecy.
Then, on December 7, 1941, half an hour after word of the Jap attack at Pearl Harbor, a coded flash of the one-word-one-letter message “Plan A” informed Pan American Clipper crews and the 25,000 men and women of the company that they were at war. All the Clipper routes were now war routes.
The contributions of Pan American to the war were many and varied. At new training schools, Pan American veterans passed on their knowledge to specially picked young men of the military services. Five thousand cadets graduated from one of the schools, the one for training young men in the new, rapidly developing science of aerial navigation. At another Pan American school, Army and Navy flight crews learned radio communication.
Pan American provided the core of the Navy’s flight engineer training program with a school at LaGuardia Field which prepared 1,400 flight mechanics for duty on the Navy’s flying boats, including the 70-ton Mars.
Frequently Pan American Clippers carried war cargo to the Allies in the nick of time. Only days after Pearl Harbor, spare airplane parts and tracer ammunition were flown direct to India for trans-shipment on Pan American’s affiliate, China National Aviation Corporation to the American Volunteer Group, the “Flying Tigers.” As a result, 40 grounded P-40s were able to get into the air. And in an action near Rangoon on Christmas Day, they surprised the Japs, downing 26 planes. During the North African campaign in 1942, Pan American rushed a shipment of tank parts and ammunition to General Montgomery’s Eighth Army, just before the Battle of El Alamein, which marked the first major defeat of German Field Marshall Erwin Rommel. This was only one of many hundreds of high priority rush cargo jobs.
The huge Clippers, in addition to the runs for which they had been built, over the North and mid-Atlantic and Pacific, maintained a vital supply line over the South Atlantic from Brazil to Africa, carrying men and great quantities of supplies that helped turn the tide and bring about the eventual ousting of the Axis from all of Africa.
The Eastman Kodak V-mail process was pioneered for air mail by Pan American and Britain’s Imperial Airways, and was turned over to the Army and Navy to facilitate the transmission of letters to soldiers and sailors overseas.
Natural rubber had to be gotten from far up in Brazil’s huge Amazon basin, to replace rubber from Malay Plantations, which the Japs had seized. So Pan American rushed allrubber cargoes from a thousand miles up in the deepest jungle in seven hours to the Pan American airport at Belem at the mouth of the Amazon. From there transport planes sped the rubber to the United States.
Possibly the most tremendous undertaking by Pan American in World War II was construction of a system of airports throughout the world, often in the wildest jungle, overcoming obstacles that some thought insuper-
able. The chain of more than 50 airports built by Pan American in 15 different countries was a secret weapon of the United Nations. They served bombers and supply planes which dashed across the South Atlantic to blast the Nazis out of Africa, then on to smash the Axis out of Europe and the Japs in Asia.
Five thousand miles east of Suez, Pan American threw a wartime aerial highway over the treacherous Himalayas, from India to Chungking, China, and beyond, through the worst flying in the world.
Pan American’s young American and Chinese flyers battled the fiercest storms and severest icing, over jungle valleys and past ice-capped Mt. Everest, highest mountain in the world, held the line across the Himalayan Hump for 18 months, until the Air Transport Command of the Army Air Forces moved in with a great fleet of cargo carriers.
The Clippers carried Franklin D. Roosevelt, first president of the United States to fly overseas, Prime Minister Winston Churchill, Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, King Peter of Jugoslavia, General Marshall, General Dwight Eisenhower, Admiral King, Admiral Nimitz, General Arnold, General Jimmy Doolittle, Archbishop Francis J. Spellman, Soviet Ambassador Maxim Litvinoff, Harry Hopkins and a host of other important passengers.
Pan American did the biggest overseas flying job of any airline contractor to the armed services during World War II. It was the largest air transport contractor to the War Department and the only such contractor to the Navy.
The Army overnight assigned Pan American to set up the longest and fastest big scale air transport route in history, the 11,500-mile Cannonball run from Miami to India. To do this job, Pan American set up an entire new division, known as Africa-Orient Division. This division opened its service with a spectacular mass flight of five four-engined land planes across the South Atlantic in November, 1942, near the time of the United States invasion of Africa. The division pioneered in breaking in the C-54 Skymaster airplane, which later became the big world-encircling workhorse of the Army’s Air Transport Command, and the other wartime contract airlines.
Because of the highly important and secret nature of Africa-Orient Division’s operations, little was known of its work. The men got no publicity, no medals nor glory, but no ordeal was too great for them. The supply line they kept open was one of America’s secret weapons.
Africa-Orient’s mid-Atlantic route was perhaps the most tremendous air transport operation ever conducted by a commercial airline up to that time — in number of big airplanes and totals of passengers and cargo carried.
Illustrating the magnitude of Africa-Orient, it was announced that on September 22, 1944, sixteen four-engined Pan American Airways contract-operated C-54s were flying (Continued on page T-3)