Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
13.	Make charts showing the magnetic North Pole; the geographical North Pole; the polar grid system.
14.	Plan a mural or slides of picturesque places and scenes in the Arctic.
15.	Make “three dimensional” scenes of Eskimo life and life of the nomadic tribes.
16.	Show on a thermometer the readings at various places in the Arctic on given days.
17.	Depict the various uses of the reindeer on a chart.
B. Culmination:
1.	Make a scrapbook of all the current articles in newspapers and magazines for school display.
2.	Dramatize parts of some of the hooks for an assembly showing.
3.	Have a speaker who has been in the Arctic talk to interested classes.
4.	Any of the items in V A may be used as a culmination.
VI.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Personnel
2.	Books and magazines
3.	Movies and strip films
4.	Newspapers and travel folders
VII.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS:
A study of Antarctica would be a natural follow up to see what happens at the
opposite end of the earth.
How much of this new and valuable information do you remember:
I.	GENERAL QUESTIONS:
1.	Name some places where the coldest weather known has been recorded.
2.	What two industries will probably provide the best opportunities in the Arctic?
3.	What is the most northerly cape in Alaska?
4.	Why is the reindeer so suited to this climate?
5.	What are some products obtainable from the musk ox?
6.	What happens to direction at the North Pole?
7.	What else vanishes at the North Pole?
8.	Name two nomadic tribes.
9.	Name five animals found in the Arctic.
10.	Who are the most northerly inhabitants?
11.	Describe a tundra.
12.	What did Frobisher discover?
13.	What is another name for the Polar Sea?
14.	What is permafrost and what does it prevent?
15.	What ancient civilization first knew of the frozen North?
16.	Which Arctic bird is the migration champion of the world?
17.	When does the sun shine on all parts of this region for at least part of the day?
18.	What does the West Wind drift do? The North Atlantic Drift?
19.	Name some species of trees found in the Arctic region.
20.	Name some fur bearing animals of the Arctic region.
21.	Does it ever rain at the North Pole?
22.	What is fossil ivory?
23.	In what part of the Arctic is uranium found?
24.	What name did Pytheas give to Iceland?
25.	In what year did Peary reach the North Pole?
26.	Who was the first man to make both the Northeast and Northwest passage?
27.	Who was the first to reach the North Pole by air?
28.	Who completed the first solo flight over the North Pole from Norway?
29.	How much of the earth’s land areas does the Northern hemisphere include:
30.	How much of its population is included in the Northern hemisphere?
II. FILL IN THE BLANKS:
1.	The ............ is the most profit-
able animal in the Arctic.
2.	Another name for the musk ox is
3.	The United States purchased Alaska
from ........... in the year......
4.	At the North Pole the sun is always in
the ............
5.	The ice never melts around the
6.	The two zones in the Arctic are the
............ and the ...............
7.	Greenland has most of the world’s supply of ................
8.	It is all daylight on ..........
9.	It is all darkness on ............
10.	The largest island in the world is
11.	The .......................... pre-
vents extremes in climate at the North Pole.
12.	In midsummer at the North Pole there
is...........instead of snow.
III.	DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1.	What part will the Arctic region play in the IGY?
2.	How will the Arctic become a link between the continents?
3.	Why is it not wise to generalize about the Arctic?
4.	What valuable minerals await exploitation?
5.	Why would polar air routes be so important in case of war?
6.	What do these air routes offer to the peace of the world?
7.	What contribution did Lindbergh make to air transportation over these northerly routes?
8.	What is meant by the “Arctic Circle, crossroads of the northern hemisphere”?
IV.	WHAT PART DID THE FOLLOWING PLAY IN THE HISTORY OF THE ARCTIC?
Robert E. Peary The Vikings John Davis Fridtjof Nansen Raold Amundsen Sir Hubert Wilkins Sir W. E. Parry
Vilhjalmur Stefansson Martin Frobisher Henry Hudson Alexander Mackenzie Floyd Bennet Lincoln Ellsworth Pytheas
Captain Henry Larsen Sir John Franklin Umberto Nobile Sir George S. Nares Matt Henson	Frederick Jackson
S.	A. Andree	Dr. Frederick A. Cook
Captain Charles Blair Charles A. Lindbergh Admiral Richard E. Byrd
V. ON A MAP OF THE ARCTIC REGION LOCATE:
Greenland	Spitsbergen
Franz Josef Land	Pribilof Islands
Kolina River	Bering Strait
Ungava Peninsula Labrador	
Cape Simpson	Bear Lake
Melville Bay	Cape Barrow
Victorian Island	Novaya Zemlya
Baffin Bay	Davis Strait
Hudson Bay	Hudson Strait
Baffin Island	Frobisher Bay
Siberia	Alaska
Arctic Ocean	Arctic Circle
VOCABULARY	
abandonment	relinquishment, given up
abyss	bottomless gulf, vast depth
accretions	growth by accumulation of outside matter
ascertained	learned with certainty, found out
astral	pertaining to stars, starry
astronomical	pertaining to the science of heavenly bodies
aura	sensation of wonder
bilateral	agreement of two countries
chlorophyll	green coloring matter in plants
clarity	clearness
coincidence	agreement in position, in time
conception	ideas, thought
coniferous	cone-bearing
continuity	unbroken, continuous
controversy	debate, dispute, quarrel
delineation	tracing out
depicted	described vividly
domesticating	training to become tame for use
edible	fit to eat
epic	a story of the achievement of heroes
extinct	no longer existing
feasible	Practical, can be done successfully
figment	something imagined
floes	masses of floating ice
fluctuate	to move backward and forward
fused	blended
geological	pertaining to the structure of the earth
glaciated	overspread with ice
homogeneous	same kind or nature
hydrological	branch of physical geography that treats of the waters of the earth
incredibly	hardly believable
inferred	concluded
innumerable	so many that they cannot be counted
intercontinental	between continents
insular	pertaining to an island
kayaks	hunting canoes of Arctic America
lemmings	Small Arctic rodents with short tails and furry feet
magnetical	pertaining to magnetism on earth
meteorological	pertaining to atmosphere, weather and climate
migrating	going from one region to another
nitrogen	odorless, colorless gaseous element
nomadic	roaming, unsettled