Pah American
^Fe'èiwary, 1948	Won to A Teacher
Guanajuato, with the cry, “Long live the Virgin of Guadalupe and down with the bad government.”
A Promising Friendly Future
In May, 1947, President Miguel Alemán boarded the “Sacred Cow”—the plane which President Truman had sent south to fly the Mexican President to Washington. President Alemán stayed at the White House one night, was honor guest at a state dinner, and later addressed a joint session of Congress. Afterwards he came to New York City, received the acclaim of the City, and before departing addressed a meeting of the United Nations where he expressed hope for a world of peace.
Never in the history of United States-Mexican relations had the two countries been more friendly. In March, 1947, President Truman had made a state visit to Mexico where he had been royally entertained by his host and acclaimed by Mexicans. Both visits climaxed a long period of uncertainty and opened the way for closer and better relations.
“As late as 1942,” writes Herbert Cerwin in his These are the Mexicans, “U.S. troops and the American flag when appearing in newsreels were hissed in some motion picture theatres. In the summer of 1946, General Eisenhower on a visit to Mexico was given the biggest ovation any foreigner had ever received. Before 1940, this would never have happened. The welcome to President Truman in 1947 was, f course, tremendous, and as sincere.”
, 'Why this change We are not going to discuss past history in this short article. We can say however that in the last decade both countries have been helping each other in a neighborly fashion. During the war Mexican laborers came to the United States to work on railroads and farms, and American technicians went to Mexico as advisers and friends.
There is another factor which has contributed to a better liking between American and Mexican peoples. Thanks to the tourist influx, Americans are beginning to discover many good qualities in the Mexicans, and they in turn are beginning to know the Americans. The majority of American tourists belong to the middle class: the school-teacher, the store clerk, the stenographer, the scientist, the artist. They go to Mexico to see and enjoy the country. On the other hand, Mexicans are realizing now that these Americans whom they find in museums, fairs, market places, are kind and friendly people who do not try to cheat them.
The tourists too are finding out that Mexicans are not all Indians and that they do not spend their time playing guitars and taking siestas. The Mexican government does everything to make a tourist’s visit to Mexico a pleasant experience, having English speaking policemen with little metal American flags on their chests for vV;- tourist’s convenience. All these little irciails are real signs of friendship.
During the last war U.S.A. helped Mexico in many ways. In 1942 Mexico did not have the necessary money or material for adequate war gear. Budgets for public health improvement, education, transportation, so necessary for the national welfare,
BELGIUM CROSSROADS
(Continued from Page 4)
national characteristic and the railroads which traverse the country appear to follow a horizontal floor varied here and there by wooded or grass grown hills cut by winding rivers. Belgium is a land of long range commuters with many living thirty-five miles from their places of employment. Some textile workers even cross the French border daily to File and Roubaix.
The chief rivers, the Scheldt and Meuse rising in France and flowing to the North Sea are connected by important canal systems whose construction has been favored by low relief. Although Ostend is an important port on the North Sea Belgium’s outlet to the Atlantic Ocean is through the English Channel. The high speed planes of principal airlines which link Brussels and Antwerp with important cities of the world speed from end to end of the country’s 11,775 square miles in a matter of minutes. Direct service between New York and Brussels via Gander, Newfoundland and Shannon. Eire was inaugurated by Pan American World Airways in January 1947.
Picturesque But Progressive
A unique characteristic of Belgium is the interweaving of modernity with medieval charm. During the nineteenth century’s industrialization Liege became the Pittsburgh of the land. Steel mills and coke ovens dot the landscape and a thick layer of smoke hovers over the town. But the Meuse river which winds its way through the town to busy docks is still lined with quaint medieval houses which lend the city a provincial charm of centuries gone by. Many other cities such as Ghent and Bruges, trade centers of long ago, still retain their beauty despite many modern buildings.
were too small to permit any of these funds to be appropriated for improvements in national defense. So, in the interest of both nations, U. S. A. aided Mexico in defense measures. Credit was extended to purchase 160 military planes. Telephone communications with Maria Madre and Tres Marias Islands in the Pacific, and with Mexicali and Mazatlan on the west coast were opened in the interest of national defense.
Over $700,000 was spent by LT.S.A. to rehabilitate Mexican railways in order to keep vital war materials moving. U.S.A. took over ninety-one per cent of Mexico’s exports and provided nearly ninety per cent of her imports. Today, American products are sold everywhere in Mexico and many U.S. manufacturers now have their own plants near the industrial centers of the nation.
During the last two years Mexico has become the Mecca for Americans. Scores of fine books appear every year describing its fascinating contrasts, its progress in the economic, social and political fields. Now we know more about Mexico than all the American Republics put together. No wonder the American and Mexican peoples understand and like one another better today than in any other period of their histories.
Belgium like many other nations has a housing shortage. Her people, always keenly interested in proper living quarters, have won a reputation of being one of the best housed countries in the world. The nation produces the various building materials except timber, which to a great extent is imported from the northern countries.
In 1939 Belgium had just over two million houses, but during the ensuing years
480.000	homes were completely wrecked and 268,000 others damaged. Temporary shelters fabricated from such unbaked materials as bricks, tile and cement were erected. In the construction of permanent houses however Belgians are proceeding according to careful plans. They wish their country to become more and more a land for tourists playing host to as many as
100.000	visitors from all over the world each year. Recognizing the value of their medieval atmosphere they intend to capitalize on its attraction for others by modernizing within the framework of antiquity.
A Miniature Melting Pat
An intellectual as well as a physical contrast is apparent in Belgium. In many ways the nation is a miniature melting pot of European characteristics. The people combine the industriousness and steadiness . of northern lands with the gaiety and emotion of the Latin peoples of France and Italy. They are both practical and artistic, frugal and fond of good living.
They work hard and play hard. The entire coast, built up a great part of its forty miles, is in reality one beach. Every mile or so is a fashionable seaside resort. One of the most famous is Ostend, a frequent German air target, which received the welcomed patronage of King Leopold II. The town is also the base for Belgium’s fishing fleet which after escaping to British waters during occupation is once more contributing its catch to the food supply of the nation.
Although tied to Europe by a lacework of rivers, canals, railroads, highways and air routes, Belgian farmers and white collar workers are generally conservative and share with the British people a devotion to the principle of constitutional monarchy. Not only are their political and economic ideas alike but Belgium’s strategic position has made her activities of vital concern to Great Britain. As Napoleon once stated the small country is like a dagger pointed at the heart of England.
During World War II Belgian troops were trained and equipped by the British Government and a formal military union between the two nations is a strong possibility. Her importance in England s program of close cooperation with other western European nations is enhanced by Belgium’s realization that its interests are firmly entrenched in the Atlantic community of nations.
Another surprising contrast found in Belgium is the fact that national unity has been attained by two diverse people who differ in their linguistic as well as their ethnic views. In the industrial south live
