Pa/v A mer ica h
World Airways Teacher	February ^1948 %
Pan American
;
World Airways Teacher
Published, as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Enrique Portes, Editorial Consultant
Copyright 1948, PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS, INC.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
New Name
The paper for teachers appears in this issue under its new name, Pan American World Airways Teacher.
We have thought that this name will better identify the publication as what it is —a periodical intended to provide for teachers information about other countries of the world, with particular emphasis upon Air Age aspects, so that teachers in turn may select and make use of whatever fits their needs for their classroom work.
The change also takes care of a problem which has arisen with respect to the use of the term Clipper. A Flying Clipper means an airplane operated by Pan American World Airways. Extension of the term to other usages has proved undesirable for a number of reasons, hence our new name.
The character and content of Pan American World Airways Teacher will follow the established pattern. We will continue to offer each month two articles about good neighbor countries, about their people and their customs, and about aviation and air transportation as it exists there.
The articles this month are by Enrique Portes and Lou A. Phillips, both of whom have long been regular contributors. Mr. Portes writes about Mexico, Miss Phillips about Belgium.
The two articles will be available as reprints, as are the other similar articles which have appeared in other issues of the paper during the current school term. (See below).
Countries scheduled for the April issue are China and Guatemala.
Geography—Social Studies
The booklets listed below may be had without charge upon request to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
An Air View of Brazil Today Hawaii 1948
An Air View of India Today Australia, Leader in the Southwest Pacific
An Air View of Mexico Today (Available about March 1)
Belgium, Crossroads of War and Peace (Available about March 1)
OVER THE WORLD
A “Fix” on Air Education
Is aviation education “on the beam’’ ?
A report by Civil Aeronautics Administration’s Howard W. Sinclair, who is Deputy Administrator in charge of aviation education activities, indicates that it is, and that programs throughout the United States are gathering momentum.
Forty-seven states have given “considerable attention” to aviation education programs, says Mr. Sinclair in a C.A.A. report. Thirty of them have published descriptions of their programs. Nine published such descriptions for the first time in 1947, and nine others were engaged on revisions of their programs as of January 1.
“The nation needs young people who understand the changing conditions incidental to the development of civil aviation and who possess sufficient skills to qualify for places in the aviation industry and, should need arise, fit them to serve in the nation’s air forces,” the C.A.A. announcement said.
“To achieve these ends, instructors in schools and colleges must have access to information peculiar to the air age with which to enrich instructional offerings. During the last year the aviation education division, both in the central office in Washington and in the seven field offices, responded to thé great demand for the type of service only the C.A.A. could perform.”
Teachers may apply for C.A.A. materials and assistance either by writing to the C.A.A. at the Commerce Building in Washington, D. C, or at any of the seven field offices in various parts of the United States.
Of particular interest are the “Airport Operations Institute” arranged by the C.A.A. in cooperation with the Weather Bureau, the air lines and local flying organizations. A typical institute involves an inspection of airport facilities, talks and discussions, and an opportunity to get flight experience, as a passenger. During 1947 some 7,000 key school people participated in the institutes, many of whom had their first airplane rides during the institutes.
Trans-Atlantic Record
A record average of 170 persons a day flew the Atlantic during 1947 aboard Flying Clippers of Pan American World Airways. The total for the year was approximately 62,000, more than double the 1946 total of 27,300.
Clippers Aid Cosmic Ray Studies
An India-bound Flying Clipper left New York recently with a special little package, 3 inches by 1)4 inches, traveling in the special care of the Captain.
The package contained photographic plates to record the tracks of cosmic ray particles. When such particles traverse the photographic emulsion on these plates they leave tracks which become visible when the emulsion is developed, and from these tracks a skilled observer can tell the weight and speed of the particle which zipped across the emulsion.
The package was to make two round trips to Calcutta, India and return, then fly to Johannesburg, South Africa and return for two round trips, and finally travel on Pan American World Airways non-stop service to London for two flights.
Thereafter the package goes to the Institute for Nuclear Research of the University of Chicago, together with copies of the logs of all the flights on which it traveled, for examination and computation of data. The reason for flying the plates by Clipper was to enable the scientists to study intensity of cosmic ray particles at high altitudes over half the surface of the" globe.
Scheduled Air Line Records
Schedule air transportation continues to grow as rapidly as ever, says the Air Transport Association of America.
In the domestic field (lines within the U.S.) revenue plane miles flown increased 6 per cent in 1947 over 1946 and the seat miles available* rose 28 per cent (because of the introduction of larger aircraft). Ton mileage of air freight increased 111 per cent. Domestic air mail did not show an increase, in fact it dropped six-tenths of one per cent, but still was at the whopping level of 15,993,393 ton miles. Domestic lines carried nearly 13,200,000 passengers in 1947, a gain of 7.7 percent over 1946.
In the international field revenue plane miles rose 45 per cent, and seat miles available rose 102 per cent. Air cargo increased 126 per cent. International air passengers totaled nearly a million and a half for a 35 per cent gain. Average length of an international air trip rose from 1,057 miles in 1946 to 1,335 in 1947.
Teaching Unit on World Trade
PAA Educational Unit No. 2, “World Trade in the Air Age” consists of student booklets (set of 20) prepared in graphical form with explanatory text, teacher’s suggestion sheet, teacher’s source book and a slide film. The unit is designed for use in social studies or economic geography classes^ (Continued on Page 11)
* Seat miles available measure the passenger carrying capacity of the air lines. A seat mile means an available airplane flown one mile. A fifty passenger airplane in flying one mile ticks off fifty seat miles. In 100 miles it piles up 100 times 50 or 5,000 seat miles. In 1947 the international airlines had over 3 billion seat miles available—the domestic lines had nearly 10 billion.