Pan Amerícan
. February, 1948	WORLD AtRWAYS TEACHER	7
More than 12,000 manufacturing plants in 1939 represented an investment of about 250 million dollars. Ninety per cent of the cotton cloth consumed in Mexico is of domestic manufacture. The war stimulated many types of manufacturing in Mexico because foreign products were not available in sufficient volume to meet local demand.
Today many well-known American firms like duPont, Goodyear, Celanese Corporation, Crosley Radio, Atlas Cement and Worthington Pump have established factories in Mexico. In 1946 Antonio Ruiz Galindo, who had made a five-million-dollar fortune from manufacturing and office furniture, created near Guadalajara a two-million-dollar industrial city designed to raise the living standards of his thousand factory employees. He built six modern apartment buildings for his workers, who do not pay rent. They receive free medical care, free movies and free lunches. On the factory walls Ruiz Galindo placed mirrors so that the workers might be inspired to keep themselves clean. He also provided showers and soap for his employees. With these enterprising Mexicans, Mexico cannot go wrong.
Mexican Progress in Aviation
In Mexico, aviation has become an efficient general means of communication of the first importance.
With its varied topography and climate, the country provides a vast opportunity for the exchange of products between different localities. Lowlands are connected with the more industrial highlands and individual communities.
Air transport is no longer an experiment in Mexico. It has integrated the country and established better relations with her neighbors.
A few months ago Mexican custom and immigration personnel were stationed at Rio Grande International Airport in Brownsville, Texas, to simplify and speed up travel between Mexico and U.S.A. This arrangement permits passage to any point in Mexico without further clearance, sparing U.S. travelers unexpected difficulties at their destination.
The growth of aviation is not peculiar to Mexico alone. The American Republics in general make a good showing as regards air transport. A successful commercial air line was established in Colombia in 1919.* In 1939 there were more lines of regularly operated airlines in Latin America than in Europe.
Commercial air service in Mexico—according to a popular story—grew out of the operations of a company that carried payrolls for the oil companies to prevent hold-ups and to reach remote camps promptly. Today Mexico is one of the leaders in the field of air transport and communication. During the war Mexican flyers showed their skill and courage against the Japanese, and Mexico’s Air Force played a great part in the winning of the struggle.
Mexico’s commercial airways, which now comprise about 30,000 route miles, have shown rapid expansion during the last two years. Compañía Mexicana de Avia-
* The air line now is called AVIANCA, and is affiliated with Pan American World Airways.—Ed.
MAYA LAND. “El Castillo” (the Temple of Kukulkan) is an immense pyramid covering an acre of ground and rising to a height of 100 feet. It is one of the most famous of the Mayan ruins at Cichen Itza, near Merida. On the summit is a sculptured temple dedicated to the city’s patron god.
ción, (CMA) S.A.,* is the biggest in Mexico. Aeronaves de Mexico, S.A. established in 1935 is another airline of great importance. A third is Lineas Aereas Mexicanas, S.A. (LAMSA). A U.S. traveler will find every facility to cover Mexico by air. Here are some of the domestic air routes : Mexico, D.F.—Chetumal—Mérida, Mexico, D.F. — Tapachula, Monterrey — Tampico—Vera Cruz—Mexico, D.F., Oaxaca—Vera Cruz, etc.
Pan American World Airways provides international air service, and Compañía Mexicana de Aviación, affiliate of PAA, operates both international and domestic routes. U.S. companies operating to Mexico include also American Airlines, Braniff Airways and Taca Airways.
Mexico’s largest airports, 12 of which have hard-surfaced runways, are well distributed on trunk routes throughout the country, and many military airports established during the war have become available for commercial use. All airports, including private ones, must permit the landing of aircraft and give aid to all pilots requesting it.
The plans for the future are rosy. At the beginning of 1947 the Secretary of Communications laid down a complete program which, during the course of the year, proved successful. For our purpose we shall quote the most important points: “Construction of a greater number of airports, with some of the latest air navigation equipment. Reorganization of the CINCO DE MAYO Civil Aviation School at Puebla so as to include a greater number of courses for the ‘professional and moral’ training of aviation specialists. The
* Affiliated with Pan American World Airways System.—Ed.
coordination of the aerial service with other means of transportation will be undertaken in order to secure an adequate development of the transport services of the Republic.”
Yes, aviation in Mexico is a thriving industry established on sound basis for the benefit of the country, the Western Hemisphere and the world.
Some Mexican Customs
Scores of lovely books have been written about Mexico’s colorful life. Practically everything has been described in glowing terms—a thrilling bullfight, Xo-chimilco’s maze of canals and islands, popularly known as the floating gardens, and the place of the miracle where the Virgin of Guadalupe spoke softly to the Indian Juan Diego and called him “my son.”
We shall pick at random a few of the fascinating items which make up the polychromatic Mexican life.
Why not begin with Mexican music? Much of it has a plaintive note as if the Mexicans were crying for something they had not yet attained.
The corrido is a ballad typical of Mexico. It is the offspring of the Spanish romance with the Mexican touch. The music of the corrido is a repetition of the same musical phrase, but the lyrics are exciting. They tell of the adventures of heroes and bandits, of revolutions, of love tragedies, or of what happens to disobedient sons.
Mexican sentiments and character are there—stoicism, pathos, humor, mockery. Corridos like “La guera Chabela,” “Lucio” and others are sung everywhere. The