Pa/v Ameryca/v
February, 1948	World Airways Teacher	s
AIR VIEW OF MEXICO TODAY
(Continued from Page 1)
the guns were lowered, and he was allowed to go.
The Mexicans are people like you and me, inwardly the same. The difference is mostly on the surface. In this article only a limited field of Mexico is considered. The rest is left for the reader to find in a score of wonderful books which have recently appeared and deal thoroughly with the life of our neighbor to the south.
Education on the March
It would be easy to give a few facts and figures regarding literacy in Mexico. Official estimates, for instance, indicate that literacy among the adult population rose from 41 per cent in 1930 to 55 per cent in 1938. We have also found that the 23,191 primary schools enrolled 2,097,870 pupils in 1941, that intermediate instruction was given in 388 schools with a total registration of 64,758, and that there are 13 universities in Mexico.
Those Mexicans who look at illiteracy in an objective and intelligent way have reached the conclusion that the situation in general is not satisfactory. Illiteracy is at the root of the economic and public health problem of Mexico. Mexican educators realize that it is not possible to transform into industrial workers men who cannot read or write. So today the problem is being solved gradually through a plan which will cover a number of years. Schools are being built everywhere in Mexico.
A unique law was passed recently and it deserves mention because of its scope. Mexico is striving to eliminate its illiteracy by having every literate Mexican pledged to teach at least one fellow citizen to read and write. Every literate citizen is today obliged to carry a “literate campaign” card on which his activity as a teacher is set down. The results for the first year of operation of this plan show that one million people were taught to write by compatriots. The success to date of this experiement, has already led other Latin American nations to embark on a. similar project.
Mexico has tackled the problem of rural education with great energy. “Many of our country schools are really primitive,” explains my Mexican friend and teacher. “But you will know the reason when I tell you that they are built by the villagers themselves.” While the Mexican teacher spoke I took down my notes.
The children begin their studies while their parents make the road to the school-house. The children plant flowers around the site where only cactus had grown before. By the time the schoolhouse is finished, the children know a bit of arithmetic, reading and writing. They also do some singing and painting.
But that is not all. The teacher gives her pupils very useful and practical information. Girls are taught about health hygiene, how to make soap and kitchen utensils, such as brushes and brooms from the cactus fiber which is found everywhere. Boys are taught to construct tubs for
bathing the babies so that the streams and puddles may not be used for that purpose. They are also taught how to increase crops by enriching the soil. This information is taken home to the parents who may use it to get better results from the land they cultivate.
In 1921 when the great writer José Vasconcelos was appointed Minister of Education, the opportunity to study and to learn was given to millions of Mexicans who never before had been at any school. Vasconcelos brought famous educators from North and South American countries to help. Moisés Sáenz, a noted Doctor of Philosophy from Columbia University was made Director of Education in 1922. For more than 10 years he worked tirelessly to establish the educational program in force today.
In the same year of 1922 Vasconcelos invited Gabriela Mistral, the Chilean teacher and poetess (later 1945 Nobel Prize winner for Literature) to assist in the great educational reform going on in Mexico. For two years Gabriela Mistral devoted her energies to improving rural education. She crossed the country from coast to coast organizing schools. She formed groups of three to five teachers, including a carpenter, a mason, a teacher of agriculture, and teachers of reading and writing.
These groups moved about, visiting small Indian villages and bringing them learning in the form of the Three R’s, and introducing modern methods in manual work.
When these teachers moved on to another group, the first group was left in charge of the most intelligent Indian in the class. He continued the classes until the teachers returned. Most of these
classes were held in the open air, without a building and without school accessories. Mistral’s work in Mexico has not been forgotten, tier name is honored there as though she were a national hero.
Vasconcelos not only brought famous educators to Mexico. To meet the desperate need of textbooks he ordered the printing of thousands of books afid supplied both ancient and modern works to 4,500 rural libraries.
In addition to elementary education in towns and cities, older boys and girls attend high schools. Manual arts are stressed. Sewing, cooking and hygiene are among the important subjects studied by girls, while boys continue to learn more about farming, woodworking and other useful and practical handicrafts.
Agricultural schools are also being established throughout the country, and many of them are functioning to capacity. The theories learned here are put into practice in the modern farms which surround the buildings where classes meet.
Commercial schools are increasing regularly and becoming more popular. Young people learn typing and shorthand, thus fitting themselves for work as stenographers and secretaries.
The great National University of Mexico City, with over 20,000 students, has no campus life, for the various colleges are housed in different buildings all over the city. During the summer, this University of Mexico offers interesting courses for students from the United States.
Mexico is making great advances in the field of education. You can see this progress in books, magazines and newspapers. There are modern newspapers for sale in all large cities. They have all the features
LITERACY. Mexico is replacing illiteracy with the ability to read and write by requiring each literate person to teach at least one other person (or bear the expense of some one’s instruction in reading and writing). In more than a few cases it is the child who teaches his parents.