4
abundance, which have become the basis of thriving industries include paving and building stone, limestone for bricks or tile, clay for china and crockery, and sand deposits used in the manufacture of glass and mirrors. Belgian glass, pottery and porcelain wares, many hand designed, have achieved world fame for their quality and beauty.
A Most Valuable Asset
The most important single factor in continued industrial growth despite a lack of most mineral resources is the nation’s one and only Colony, the African Congo. Acquired by King Leopold II in 1907, the territory is ninety times as large as its motherland and a rich source of copper, diamonds, gold, lead, zinc, silver, tin, cobalt, iron, radium and other minerals besides producing such tropical products as rubber, coffee, nuts, cocoa, vegetable fats and oils. The Congo is believed to have one half of the world’s known supply of uranium ore of which the United States is the sole purchaser. There is actually a steel mill using atomic power for energy under active promotion near the capital of Leopoldville.
Afforded access to South Atlantic Ocean routes by the Congo River, Leopoldville is also serviced by many of the world’s major airlines. Pan American World Airways, Air France, British Overseas Aircraft Company and Sabena, the Belgian national airline, offer services which vary from weekly to monthly flights. Local African air service is provided by the Belgium Compan}- Lejaer of Costermansville.
During the war fully active colonial activities were directed by an Exiled Government in London. The United States Army trained and equipped forces for African campaigns, sent civilian supplies, transportation, mining and factory equipment, repaired roads, bridges and set up mobile electric plants.
In return the United States had full access to all Congo raw materials and our subsequent purchases far outweighed the value of our aforementioned goods and services. This enabled the Colony to build up a considerable pile of dollar exchange which was put at the disposal of the Belgian Government, enabling it to immediately buy equipment and food abroad upon liberation.
Two other sources of dollars and gold were also available. After the rapid German withdrawal American currency was received for abandoned Nazi equipment, for services rendered by the Belgians to our Armed Forces and from expenditures by individual soldiers. In addition the prewar gold supply which had been sped to safety in the United States, Britain and France was returned intact.
This pile of dollars, however valuable, was not the only asset of the Government on its return. Months in London were not wasted as on V-E Day a Belgian Commission For The Study of Post War Problems had one of the most comprehensive sets of rehabilitation plans ever drawn up. With dollars and gold, primarily economic missions were sent to Washington and London and secondary groups to Buenos Aires, Montreal, Lisbon, Madrid, Stock-
Pan American
World	Alruavs Teacher
holm, and Copenhagen to buy commodities and equipment to resupply industry and agriculture and add to food stocks.
Making the Most of a Little
Today considerable quantities of the food consumed is imported. About 17% of all Belgians keep to the soil, contributing one sixth of the national income. Over 90% of production is consumed at home with exports limited to such specialties as chicory, dried raisins, shrubs and flowers.
Practically all soil not claimed by urban industrial activity, the needs of defense or lines of communication is under cultivation usually in units of less than three acres. Strips of land have been reclaimed from the sea, entire forests cleared and waste lands made fertile through river and canal irrigation. Every foot is made to produce its utmost and despite the fact that peasants have been tilling their gardenlike farms for thousands of years the yield per acre is reputed to be among the highest in the world.
The two staple food articles are potatoes and rye with wheat, barley and oats also grown. Principal industrial crops are sugar beets, flax and tobacco. In areas where the land is unsuitable for tillage and grass is planted, livestock, sheep, pigs, poultry and rabbits are raised. Belgian cattle, horses and hares have achieved world fame.
One of the oldest industries of the country is based on agriculture. Textile production, started during the Middle Ages, first utilized wool then flax and more recently cotton. It has progressed from cottage to large scale factory methods although the older system has not yet completely disappeared. The lawns, damasks, laces and carpets of Belgium are important products. Other industries directly dependent on crops are beet sugar establishments, breweries, alcohol distilleries and wood factories. In many areas, interdependece of industry and agriculture exists with factory working hours so arranged that workers can also engage in cultivation.
The chief problem facing both industry and agriculture today is the obsolescence of equipment which has been neither repaired nor renewed since 1939 or 1940. Passive resistance towards German occupation forces during the war precluded the introduction of any new ideas. The metallurgical industry for example permitted itself to produce only 40% of its capacity. Now new techniques as well as machines are needed in factories, mines and on farms to increase production which is the only road to successful rehabilitation.
Prosperity Depends on World Trade
Because Belgium cannot depend on domestic sources of food or raw materials to feed her people and keep workers busy, she is extremely sensitive to economic conditions in other countries. Pier stake in international trade is enormous as the only way in which payment can be made for needed imports is through the sale of commodities or services. The diamond cutting and polishing industry, centered in Antwerp, is a good illustration. The United
February? 1948
States absorbs so many diamonds that when a financial crisis puts a check on luxury purchased in this country more than,, one half of the diamond cutters in Belgium are thrown out of work. Realization of this situation has caused Belgian political leaders to be among the pioneers in international economic cooperation both within the council halls of the United Nations and on their own initiative in western Europe.
One of the first steps in this pattern was taken in 1922 when Belgium and Luxembourg entered a union under which they had a common tariff and monetary system. In 1930 both countries came to an agreement with the three Scandinavian countries whereby each agreed not to change tariffs without consultation. Two years later a proposal for gradual lowering of tariffs between Belgium and Norway was studied but abandoned in the face of the rising trade barriers which were to play their part in causing the second World War.
One of the most recent developments has been the Benelux plan which will result ultimately in an economic union between Belgium-Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The first step was to draft a common tariff which would be a compromise between the present higher Dutch and lower Belgium duties. The task was not easy as each rate was decided upon individually. Sectional interests clashed frequently. Flemish farmers were afraid of competition from highly organized Dutch agriculturalists and Antwerp port authorities felt Rotterdam facilities would be in greater demand because of the latter’s easier access to the Rhine.
The next step which will do away completely with tariffs between the parties to the agreement will take about four years to accomplish. Industrial Belgium and agricultural Holland have followed different economic and financial paths since their liberation and prices, wages and financial policies must be brought into line gradually in order not to disrupt the normal flow of trade. According to the president of the Netherlands Chamber of Commerce an economically unified Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg may be expected to rank in world trade immediately after the United States and the United Kingdom.
Another post war agreement between nations of western Europe has been signed by Benelux partners and France. Each of the four plan to cooperate in obtaining necessary food, essential goods, raw materials and industrial equipment. Another phase of the pact is the coordination of transportation and trade routes with special emphasis on port activities.
Transportation Vital Concern
The development of transportation and trade have always been interdependent. Belgium’s economic prominence since the sixteenth century has been based on its proximity to shortest overseas commercial routes. A dense network of efficient rail, internal waterways, highways and air communication exists today. The country has over 6,000 miles of roads, mostly paved in stone. Flatness of the countryside is a (Continued on Page 9)