
Pah American
Jé

World Airways Teacher
°St ffXPER'^0
February, 1948
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. IV, No. 3
PUBLIC RELATIONS
AN AIR VIEW OF MEXICO TODAY
By Enrique Portes
FILE

Do you think of Mexico as a romantic and picturesque place where life is easy and where everybody has a song in his heart? Or do you think of Mexico as a poor country peopled only by Indians wearing a bright serape and a big sombrero?
Of course, you do not. Only those who rely upon a superficial knowledge of Mexico try to sum up in a phrase or two what Mexico is.
It is not lovely Mexico City alone. It is not the ferocious Popocatepetl volcano which watches faithfully over the country. Mexico is more than mariachi songs, bullfights, Acapulco’s resorts and Cuernavaca’s wonders. Mexico is a young Republic in spite of its old history, a progressive people although still, perhaps, behind the times in some respects.
It is not difficult to understand Mexico. The people are not fundamentally different from Americans. It is true that Mexico is a country of contrasts and extremes, born of conflict and of bloodshed. But what country has not suffered in its history?
Now that Mexico has become a Mecca for tourists, Americans are beginning to see for themselves that Mexico is not just made up of Indians, cacti and bandits.
Visitors are beginning to realize that there are 25 million Mexicans, and of these only six million are Indians; that trains leave exactly on schedule; that Mexico is one of the richest countries in the world; that there was an Indian— Benito Juarez—who was the Lincoln of his time; that not all Mexican presidents are assassinated. Only two have been assassinated in office, or one less than in the United States. (Incidentally, the Republic of Colombia boasts of having no president assassinated while in office.)
Many foreigners imagine the Mexicans as a happy-go-lucky people without a worry in the world, and they have been led to believe that Mexican philosophy of life revolves around the word mañana. This false notion, in fact, is applied to all Latin Americans. Nothing is farther from the truth. Visitors are usually surprised to find that Mexico City was not built on the philosophy of procrastination. They discover that it is a big modern metropolis, dike San Francisco or Chicago but more sophisticated and cosmopolitan. It has skyscrapers, fine apartment buildings, elegant restaurants and night clubs more expensive than in New York. There are also country clubs with golf courses, an opera season, symphony concerts and art exhibitions. The
streets are crowded with automobiles, the department stores packed. It is prosperous and busy, with a population of two million. Its businessmen are shrewd and hard and as eager as Yankee traders. These are the people visitors are beginning to know.
Is there any Mexican type—one who will embody the various traits and tendencies of the entire nation? The answer, of course, is no. It would be as if we tried to find the average American, who in reality does not exist. In addition we must remember that the rhythm of Mexican life varies in accordance with the section of the country, for Mexico is a land of different climates that modify habits, customs and ways of life. People do not live the same way on the hot, tropical coasts and low valleys as they do on the cold, high plateaus. Northern Mexicans are different from southern Mexicans, and Mexico City residents seem to be different from the rest of the country.
This does not mean of course that there
is no Mexican national character. Any Spanish American can distinguish a Mexican in any group in which Spanish is spoken. In their intonation, their use of peculiar words, we know they are Mexicans. This is nothing unusual. A New Yorker can easily determine who is from Georgia or Texas.
In other respects the Mexican is just like any other Spanish American. His love for poetry is proverbial. The late George F. Weeks, who lived for many years in Mexico and was war correspondent for the New York Herald during the revolution, wrote a little story which is well known in this country. In a skirmish during the revolution, wrote Weeks, the soldiers of the defeated party broke and fled, and one of the fugitives climbed a tree. The pursuers came up and levelled their guns at him; but he called out, “Do not shoot me! I am a poet!” Immediately (Continued on Page 5)
POPOCATEPETL. A famous sight in Mexico is Mount Popocatepetl, volcano near Mexico City. Mexico also has a brand new volcano which appeared within recent year in a corn held in Michoacan and which has been given the name Paracutin.