Pan American
World Airways Teacher	February,_ ms ^
people love to listen to them because they are about themselves.
There are also revolutionary songs which remain as fresh as when they were composed. “Adelita,” “La Valentina,” “La Cucaracha” date from the 1910-1920 Social Revolution. Soldiers sang them, though the songs had no connection with the war.
Mexican love songs are really beautiful. Some of them are used in special occasions. “Las Mañanitas,” for instance, is for birthday serenades. As the serenades take place at the hour the cocks begin to crow, shortly after midnight, they are called gallos. The girl serenaded sometimes peeks through the window but she must not turn on the light nor let herself be seen.
There are traditional songs for the gallos, sung to the accompaniment of a guitar. One of them begins with “Si estás dormida,” and goes on, “If you are asleep, my love, awake and listen to the voice of the one who loves you..
Serenades are usually organized by several friends who practice the songs together and then sing them at the homes of their respective girl friends. Those who cannot themselves sing, hire professional singers.
Miss Frances Toor, in her fascinating “A Treasury of Mexican Folkways,” tells of an unusual story. “A rich man in Guadalajara,” writes Miss Toor, “once created a sensation by hiring the entire Russian Cossack Chorus, giving concerts there, to serenade his love. He also had a number of mariachis. As the gallo took place at the hour when the natives were taking their produce to the market on burros, they also joined the group. Such a gallo has never been heard of before nor after.”
Wonderful to Look At
Mexican dances are also lovely to look at. The basis of practically all the folk dances are the jarabes. Jarabe means a syrup or sweet drink in Spanish. The Jarabe Tapatio is the Mexican national folk dance. Such famous dancers as Pavlova and La Argentina learned and danced it during their visits to Mexico. The Jarabe Tapatio consists of nine gay, captivating melodies and dance figures, the dancers meeting and moving around each other but always some distant apart.
They dance with heel and toe, beating a strong rhythm to the music. The entire dance lasts about ten minutes. At the end comes “The Dove,” during which the man follows the girl as she dances around the broad brim of his sombrero. As she stoops to pick it up, he passes his right leg over her. They finish by facing the audience, dancing back and forth to the “Diana,” the man’s arm around the girl. She wears the China Poblana costume and the man that of the Charro.
Why Not Try Tortillas?
When we think of Mexican food the first thing that comes to our mind is tortillas. They are the most prominent of corn foods, the bread of the Indians for many centuries.
Tortillas are made of the corn kernels, cooked slightly and soaked over night in lime water; then they are ground into a
-
FANCY DRESS. Although the people of Mexico in general dress themselves in much the fashion of people in the United States, they love to don special fancy dress for special occasions (as who doesn’t). The men in this picture are attired in
Charro costumes.
paste. Tortillas are patted with both hands to the desired size and thickness and immediately baked.
Corn paste is the base for many other foods besides tortillas. Tamales, for instance, which are about the size and shape of a small banana, either plain or filled with beans or meats, flavored with chile or sweetened and steamed in corn husks or in banana leaves.
All Mexicans eat tortillas. Of the complicated corn foods the famous ones are the tacos—beans, cheese or meats, wrapped in tortillas, seasoned with chile and fried; and enchiladas, which are tacos covered with chile sauce to which sour cream is often added. Tortillas fried crisp are called tostados. Delicious all.
Always the “New Look”
The rebozo or shawl is used by the women to cover their heads when they go to church. It has the same importance to the woman as the serape to the man. It is her hat and coat; serves as a cradle for the baby on her back and as a blanket when it is lying beside her. It may be used as a market basket, and if twisted on her head, as a stand for a water jar. As rebozos are used principally by the poor, nearly all are of ordinary cotton thread and conservative colors—dark blues, greys, brown, all with fine white pin-point designs.
Generally the Mexican Indian woman wears an old-fashioned calico dress—a full skirt reaching to the ankles or sweeping the ground, with or without flounces, wrist plain or with yoke. Some use a sleeveless shirt of white cotton, embroidered with silk thread or beads.
Men and boys always wear palm leaf
handsome sombreros of all sizes and shapes, each region having its own styles. Only in a few villages of Oaxaca are felt hats worn. The men’s overcoat is the serape or blanket of homespun wool, pure or mixed, of different sizes, colors and designs in every village.
Serapes or blankets are among the showiest and most useful of the hand-woven objects. They are worn by men and boys only, for whom they serve as overcoats, for adornment, as wedding cloaks, and in the end for shrouds. In Peru the Indians call them ponchos. At night they are used for covers and in the daytime to spread things on in the market place; also to stretch over poles for shelter from the sun or rain. As a tourist I bought a beautiful serape in Mexico, and now I use it to cover my couch in New York.
First Lady
In the United States the First Lady of the Land is the President’s wife. In Mexico she is the Virgin of Guadalupe. The Virgin was the first of the various miraculous apparitions on Mexican soil.
Right after the Conquest the first Archbishop ordered the destruction of all pagan deities and their shrines. One which had the widest cult near the capital was Tonantzin—Aztec goddess of Earth and Corn—whose shrine was on Tepeyac hill. The Indians mourned her loss so deeply that the dark-skinned Virgin of Guadalupe was sent to take her place. There is today a Basilica built at the foot of the hill where the Virgin appeared.
For many centuries the Virgin has been the protector of Mexico. The patriot Father Hidalgo started the Revolution for Independence at his church in Dolores,
*