Pan American
February, 1948	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
BELGIUM, CROSSROADS OF WAR AND PEACE
By Lou A. Phillips
Above all else, the United States desires the revival of a working economy in the world that will permit the emergence of political and economic conditions in which free institutions can exist. The Marshall Plan is one of the ways in which we are trying to realize this aim in Europe. It can be successful only if accompanied by an unprecedented peace time effort of work by all the people of participating countries.
None realize more the value of self-help than do the Belgians, who, through their own hard work have almost succeeded in recapturing a prewar standard of living which was one of the highest in the world. The United States has demonstrated the value of free enterprise in the Western Hemisphere and eight million Belgians have proven that it can work even in Europe. In many respects they had greater resources at their command than many nations but they also were faced with considerable problems.
At The Crossroads In Peace and War
Although Belgium is a tiny land, scarcely larger than the state of Maryland, it has one of the heaviest concentrations of population and industry in the world. Few people have had more experience in rebuilding their homes after foreign invasion or occupation.
With no political individuality until the sixteenth century, the country fell into the hands of one aggressive nation after another. Time after time decisive battles of large European wars have taken place on Belgian soil.
In the seventeenth century Spain, Holland and Denmark clashed there with Louis XIV of France. The eighteenth century saw England, Spain and the Netherlands fighting against the French Revolutionary Republic’s attempt to annex Belgium. In the nineteenth century England, Prussia, Austria and Russia allied themselves against Napoleon I and it was at Waterloo, nine miles south of Brussels that the armies of the Duke of Wellington won their final victory.
After Napoleon’s defeat in 1815 the territory was joined to Holland to form the Kingdom of the Netherlands but the union lasted only fifteen years after which Belgium claimed its independence. Despite paper guarantees of neutrality by all the Great Powers twice during the twentieth century German armies have invaded its territory only to be ousted each time by American, British Empire and French forces.
Just as Belgium has been a natural meeting ground in times of war she has assumed the same role in times of amity. Few countries in history have been so benefited by pc ace. The very nations whose armies had clashed on Belgian soil. Great Britain, France, Germany and the Netherlands, became the purchasers of three-fifths of her products for export. The remaining 40% reach other parts of the world chiefly America with whom Belgium is connected by direct sea and air routes.
Antwerp, fifty miles inland on the Scheldt River, is the nation’s greatest port as well as an important commercial and industrial center. In addition, the Rhine and Meuse Rivers which afford the city easy access to parts of France and Germany make it a natural bridgehead for western Europe’s overseas trade. In the last prewar year its thirty mile long docks of the port were on the registers of more than 50,000 vessels from all over the world. With facilities relatively intact, upon liberation, only harbor waters needed to be cleared before more than 200 million tons of American supplies could pass through for Allied Roer and Rhine crossing operations.
The political and cultural center of the nation, its capital Brussels, also suffered only slight damage during the recent war. Today in contrast to the sordid atmosphere found in some continental cities it is one of the gayest spots in Europe. Multicolored neon lights sparkle at night lighting up full shop windows, while 1946 American cars roll through streets of energetic, confident people.
Connected with the North Sea by a system of canals, the city is an important railroad center and is also connected by airplane with most leading European cities. A great international airport is now under construction nearby with runways several miles long to accommodate the largest of transatlantic planes which will bring both tourists and business men to one of the leading industrial centers of the land.
Industry Plays Primary Role
Three times as many Belgians are engaged in industry as in agriculture. The
industrial revolution which began in England spread through Belgium to the continent giving her a preeminent position in the machine age.
Lying upon the northern side of an ancient mountain chain, long worn down to a low level, Belgian soil contained large amounts of coal as well as iron, zinc and other valuable assets to industrialization. Throughout the years however, practically all mineral supplies except coal have been exhausted and now must be imported from her African colony or foreign nations.
An indication of the nation’s heavy industrial activity is found in pre-depression statistics which show Belgian production of 503 tons of pig iron and 501 tons of raw steel per hundred people in contrast to the United States output of 355 and 470 tons respectively.
After World War II, coal which is needed by every industry making consumer goods, was recognized to be the key to the door of economic recovery. Production statistics were dangerously low however. Electricity had to be shut off from Tuesday to Friday of each week, factories were closed for lack of fuel and electric power, the number of trains running was cut, iron and steel industries were dormant and food industries lagged.
To win the battle of increased coal output it became necessary for the government to recruit foreign workers to meet serious manpower shortages in the mines, provide miners with the equipment needed for normal operations, give government status to mine laborers, and subsidize collieries to insure a low price for coal.
Less strategic raw materials, found in
BRUSSELS was an important town as far back as the Middle Ages. One of the finest cities in Europe it is best known for its tree-shaded boulevards, splendid parks, picturesque squares and beautiful suburbs. It has been the capital of Belgium ever
since its independence in 1830.