Paw American
February, 1948	Wo/UD AfffMVS TEACHER
gium and the United States. The intensive American war effort, the presence of nu-tmerous American soldiers, the renewed in-nux of American films, and the continual work of the United States Information Services and of the Cultural Relations Attaché have made Belgians intensely curious about everything in the United States. Average people now show keen interest in American technical achievements and in the intellectual and scientific activities of our country.
Whenever a Belgian and an American meet, their deep attachment to political democracy, representative institutions and individual freedom acts as an invisible bond of friendship. The first article of municipal law of one of the nation’s leading cities and inscribed on the wall of its town hall, “In this city all men are free—no one will be a slave”, is applicable to all of Belgium.
AIRWAYS MAIL BAG____________
Dear Sir:
We hereby express our heartfelt congratulation on the unprecedented success which recorded by “American Clipper” which arrived Haneda Airport, Tokyo at 1 p.m. June 26 en route to New York wherefrom she had hopped at 1 p.m. Tune 17, 1947.
New York—Gander—Shannon—Istanbul —Dhahram—Karachi—Calcutta—
\ Bangkok—Manila—Shanghai—Tokyo—
G uam—W alee—Midway—Honolulu—
San Francisco—Chicago—New York Further may we request you to arrange to send us some illustrations, folders, flight schedules etc. all which refer to Pan American Airways? Should the present mail regulations do not allow in mailing these to this occupied country, you are very kindly requested to detain until an ease in postal regulations may be announced.
T. Kimoto, Head Master Kanebo Yodogawa Young Men’s School
Osaka, Japan Educational Director :
I am grateful for the valuable little paper. It does bring the outside world a little more clearly before these island lads. I am,
Gratefully yours,
Brother Godfrey Ovalau, Fiji Islands
Gentlemen :
iiÂéÈft*
I received the Educational Service material I requested and wish to thank you for it. We are studying “We the People of the U.N.” and this material will be very valuable and is much appreciated.
Also, may I add that I am sold on air travel, am not a traveler but went by United Air from Portland to Des Moines, my first trip, had a lovely trip, wonderful vice and will most certainly go that way again.
Thanking you again for your kind and prompt service.
Sincerely yours Mrs. G. W. Baars Oregon City, Oregon


ANTWERP, which is Flemish for “on the wharf” is one of the strongest fortifications in Europe. Birthplace of Rubens and Van Dyck it has few rivals among European cities in commercial importance, architectural beauty and artistic achievements.
OVER THE WORLD
(Continued from Page 2)
to give high school students an introduction to the subject of world trade, particularly in the Air Age of today.
This unit is available without charge to
Visual Aid Departments. If you are visual aid director request this unit by writing. If you are a teacher and want it for your class, please ask your Visual Aids Director to request it for the library so that you and other teachers may use it.
G.G.
FLYING CLIPPERS BRING STUDENTS TO U. S. FOR HIGH SCHOOL FORUM
When the members of the New York Herald Tribune High School Forum assemble at the Waldorf-Astoria in New York on March 6 to hear and participate in discussions of world affairs, they will welcome a group of students from England, Scotland, Wales, Ireland and Australia, who are coming to the United States and returning afterward to their home lands via Pan American World Airways Flying Clipper as delegates from their respective countries.
At last year’s forum a large group of students from Latin America participated after flying from their countries to the South.
This year the visitors from the English-speaking nations mentioned above have been scheduled to arrive in late January, in order that they may have plenty of time to visit in American homes, and American schools. During their stay in New York City, the teenagers will be under the sponsorship of the New York Board of Education, which is making arrangements for their stays with New York City families, and for sightseeing trips and other activities.
New York City’s new Superintendent of Schools, Dr. William Jansen personally is supervising the plans for entertaining the visitors.
The group from Great Britain and Ireland includes three boys and three girls. The girls are from England, Scotland and Ireland, and the boys from England, Scotland and Wales. They were selected by the Council for Education in World Citizenship in London, which was requested to do so by the British Foreign Office and the British Ministry of Education.
Two boys will fly from Australia to the Pacific Coast and across the United States for the Forum, one via P.A.A. and the other by way of Australian National Airways. They were selected by educational authorities in Australia, working in cooperation with Sir Keith Murdoch of the Melbourne Herald.
The international flavor of the 1948 High School Forum will be still further enhanced by the presence of a group from the three Scandinavian countries, flown here by the Scandinavian Air Lines.
The students traveling by Flying Clipper are Hazel Barbara Corry of Belfast, Northern Ireland, Isabel Tweddle of Selkirk, Scotland, Terence Nelson of London, Calvin Hider of Edinburgh, Colin Meredith, of Monmouthshire, Wales, Patricia Fender of Shropshire and Donald Peter Ewing of Sydney, Australia.