__V
Pax Amer/cax
12	World Airways Teacher	February,.is«,
How Letters Received in the
STUDENTS’ INTERNATIONAL LETTER WRITING CONTEST
Are Helping Teachers Make Studies More Alive!
The First international Letter Writing Award ever presented by Scholastic Teacher, announced in the issue of September 22,1947, is helping teachers add new interest to classroom work.
In addition to providing incentive for learning how to write correspondence, the letters written and received help in the following important ways:
Current Events and History. Students learn firsthand that boys and girls in other countries are people like themselves. Today’s news and historical events both take on added personal interest.
Languages and Geography. Hearing from boys and girls in lands across the seas makes the study of other languages and countries more alive to your students.
World’s Most Experienced Airline — First Round-the-World
Displays and Newspapers. Letters from abroad make displays that draw school-wide attention to your class. They may provide excellent “copy” for your school paper.
Gerald Carnes, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, has this to say: “We consider the Scholastic International Letter Award a most important development in U. S. Public Education for the Winter of 1947-48. If young people can reach across national boundaries and ‘shake hands’ by mail, permanent world peace will be brought that much closer.”
It is with this purpose of fostering international friendship and better understanding of American life that Pan American World Airways is sponsoring this Award.
ENTER
YOUR CLASS TODAY
If you have not already done so. Write for the Scholastic Writing Awards Booklet. (Your copy is FREE. Address: The Editor, Scholastic T eacher, 220East 42nd Street, New York 17, N. Y.) A list of sources from which to obtain names of students abroad will also be sent to you on request. Be sure your students keep copies of their letters to enter in the contest.
Pah American World Airways
^/he System of l/ie^S/ijincj Clippers