Pam America/v
World Airways Teacher	February,vi948
of our own papers including baseball scores and sport news. The press is free and is one of the most outspoken in the Western Hemisphere. Mexico cherishes its tradition of freedom which in itself is a sure sign of greatness.
Literary Tradition
Mexico has a long and distinguished history in literature. It dates back to the conqtuest itself. Bernal Diaz del Castillo, who had followed Hernando Cortes, wrote the story of the conquest from the archives of his memory, which retained the looks and the ways of every conqueror and the color of every conqueror’s horse.
By 1600 Mexico was already in full activity. Four years later, Valbuena published a splendid poem on “The Greatness of Mexico,” describing the opulence and refinement of the city, the sumptuousness of the palaces, the beauty of the gardens, where the finest trees and flowers from Europe were planted, the luxury of garments and carriages, and the variety of horses, for the Mexicans were already famous horsemen, and Cervantes in Don Quixote compared them to the Andalusians of Cordoba.
One of the great classic writers of Spain was born in Mexico: Juan Ruiz de Alarcon (1580-1639.) Alarcon left Mexico when he was about twenty years old, having already finished his Bachelor’s degree and written several plays. In Spain he had to compete with the masters.
In one of the volumes he published, Alarcon addresses the public: “I speak with thee, wild beast... These plays face thee with contempt and without fear, since they no longer run the risk of thy hisses... If they displease thee, it shall give me joy to learn that they are good.” Alarcon was the first proud Mexican, with
the cold persistence of the Mexican character-—fire below, snow above, like the volcanoes of his country.
No woman in Spanish America can equal yet the genius of the Mexican nun, Sor Juan Ines de la Cruz (1651-1695). Her life was a continuous devotion to knowledge. She began to read at the age of three, and a few years later she wrote poetry.
When Sor Juana heard that there were universities where all the sciences were taught to men, she begged her mother to dress her as a boy so that she might be admitted into the university. At least she was sent to Mexico City to live in her grandfather’s house, where she read all the books in his library. At fourteen she was already famous for her learning and for her beauty.
Once forty university professors questioned her on all sorts of subjects. “Like a royal galleon surrounded by shallops, she defended herself,” says one of her biographers. Sor Juana became a nun because of, as she writes, “the wish to live alone and the wish to have no compulsory occupation to hamper the freedom of my studies.”
In the record of her life, her desire for knowledge and her scientific turn of mind seem even more striking than her literary talent, points out Henriquez-Urena. “Her scientific bent, then, which in later times might have led her to follow the example of a Sonia Kovalevska or a Marie Curie, found no outlet, and her fame rests, now as in her own times, upon her poetry.”
Her best known poem is the one in defense of women It is her thesis that men are irrational in blaming women for their imperfection, since men constantly contrive to make women imperfect.
In the Eighteenth Century Mexico had had its first novelist, Fernandez de Lizardi
(1776-1827), with his Itching Parrot. The hero is a rogue who goes through many inglorious adventures and travels as-far as the Philippines. In this book, Lizardi gives a realistic picture of Mexican life in all its strata, down to the lowest where vice took ghastly shapes This book is a rich source from which one may draw a complete knowledge of those complex times in a complex society.
We are not able to dwell with each one of the great men of letters who have appeared during the last eighty years of Mexican literature. There is a splendid bibliography in English for those who are interested in the subject.
Ever since Gonzalez Martinez reacted against the ever-refined delicacy of modernism—a literature rich in color, with exotic lakes and swans, with his now famous line “Wring the neck of the deceitful swan, the wise owl is a better counsellor,” a new group of writers has appeared on the Mexican scene.
With the Revolution of 1910 a new type of literature was born. It was not only a new poetry but a new and revolutionary novel as well. Such works as Azuela’s The Underdogs, Guzman’s The Eagle and the Serpent, Lopez y Fuentes’ The Indian are well known among American readers of contemporary fiction. In these books by Mexicans one can get a clearer picture of Mexican life than in any book about Mexico. Traveling is another good way of knowing Mexico.
If one is to judge the temper of a people by the literature they produce, then Mexico stands high as a leader of thought.
Resources of our Neighbors
More than 4 million persons were engaged in agriculture in 1939, and the value of agriculture production was about 125 million dollars. Approximately 17 million acres are cultivated. An equal acreage is considered to be suitable for cultivation, but much of this additional area would require a substantial capital investment in irrigation facilities.
To put into use these uncultivated lands has been the goal of the last three Presidents. At the end of his 1946 political campaign President Miguel Alemán summed up his program for Mexico: “The needs of the Mexican people are many: our economic development is far below our social and political advancement; we must initiate on firm foundations, the techniques of increasing agriculture, and industrialize our country, raising the standard of living and the cultural level of our people.”
Corn is the principal crop and the staple foodstuff, yet production does not ordinarily satisfy domestic requirements. Beans are second in importance as a crop and as a diet. Other items are wheat, rice, chickpeas, sugar, coffee and fruits. In 1943 cotton yield amounted to about 500,000 bales. Yucatan is the world’s principal supplier of henequen fiber, which is used in making twine and small rope.
Mining is highly important in the Mexican economy. The major mineral product, by value, is silver. The annual output represents 40 per cent of the world’s production, and Mexico leads all other countries as an exporter of silver.
MEXICO CITY. Chapultepec Park is a popular place for a leisure time outing. This view shows the appropriately named “Avenue of Philosophers.”