Pa\ Amm/ca/v
World Airways Teacher
February^ 1.T4C
which reaches back into the Middle Ages. Representatives of the people are elected by universal suffrage.
There are about 2600 communities each headed by a burgomaster and other communal officials. Communes are grouped into nine provinces, presided over by a governor named by the King.
The national Government is composed of a House of Representatives elected by direct vote and a Senate elected both directly and by provincial councils. The latter body is half the size of the House. Royal Princes automatically become Senate members at eighteen years of age. Both Legislative bodies are completely changed (except for the Royal Princes) every four years and there is no monetary remuneration.
The representatives of the people and the voters group themselves in large political parties with Ministers being chosen from the majority group. They act as the spokesmen of the King and remain in power as long as they have the confidence of the two houses of the Legislature.
Belgium and the United States
Belgian friendship with the United States is based upon cultural similarity and mutual commercial profit. Both have a common tradition of hard work, bold economic initiative and political democracy. The Walloons were among the first settlers in our rural and industrial Middle West. Despite limited trade restrictions Belgian^ American trade has assumed substantia proportions. In 1935 when a trade trea._ was signed our exports were valued at 84 million dollars while we purchased about 49 million dollars worth of merchandise and services.
It is noteworthy that of the many European nations receiving American lend-lease during the recent war Belgium was the only country to emerge as a creditor. The raw materials, industrial production and other services bought by the United States or made available to our armed forces amounted to 177 million dollars which was 99 million dollars more than the value of American goods and services rendered to her. Belgium’s sound financial position has also been the basis for a U.S. Export-Import Bank loan of 100 million dollars for additional purchases of American commodities and equipment required for rehabilitation. Main post-war purchases have been U.S. trucks, industrial machines, wheat, corn, rye, meat, petroleum, wood, cotton, sulphur, ready made clothes and shoes, oil furnaces, household appliances, oil heating apparatus and farm machinery.
American traders have also stated that the Congo’s vast natural resources and ever increasing role in the foreign trade of our country merits greater American interest in the colony’s economic development, particularly through larger investments of American capital. Next to Mj gium the United States is first on tire" Congo’s trade list with our mining, railroad and farm machinery, refrigerators and air conditioning equipment especially in demand.
Cooperation in war and commercial interests are not the only links between Bel-
the Walloons who speak a dialect of French while in the agricultural north live the Flemings speaking a Flemish tongue which is closely akin to Dutch. The two regions, approximately equal in size, stretch on both sides of a remarkably clearcut west-east line which has remained unchanged throughout the centuries.
This demarcation line cuts the capital, Brussels, in half. The Flemish lower town, once an ancient fortified city, is surrounded by beautiful boulevards devoted to modern commerce and industry. Its Grand Place, originally a market place containing a Gothic Town Hall over 500 years old, is considered one of the finest medieval public squares in Europe. In the upper town where French is spoken are the Royal Palace, the finest hotels and residential districts. Until the close of the nineteenth century the upper classes which were in political control spoke only French. With universal male suffrage however a class speaking only Flemish became active in political life and ever since 1898 there have been two official languages.
The Indestructable Desire To Learn
Both Flemish and Walloon are taught in Belgian schools. Education is free and compulsory until the age of sixteen. School buildings destroyed during the war are being rebuilt and the lack of fuel, cloth-
ing and food which caused a decrease in the learning power of students is rapidly becoming a thing of the past. Each commune has at least one public elementary and secondary school besides numerous private facilities. There is a college in each large town and four national universities. Two are maintained by the state at Liege and Ghent while a third private institution is located in Brussels. The oldest and most famous, the Catholic University of Louvain, has had the stormiest history since its foundation in 1814. Destroyed during the first World War and rebuilt by United States contributions according to the blueprint of Whitney Warren, an American architect, it was demolished once again in World War II by retreating Germans. The library of 700,000 books and illuminated manuscripts was put to the torch while 40,000 other volumes, previously removed, were inadvertently destroyed in Allied air attacks. The University is now being rebuilt once more. School curriculums are also being revised along American lines with increased emphasis being placed upon civic and commercial subjects instead of the traditional classic pattern. Incidentally Belgium requires that all Senators have a University diploma or be a member of a learned profession.
Belgium, a constitutional monarchy, is devoted to a system of local autonomy
BRUSSELS. The fifteenth century dwelling of Erasmus Van Rotterdam at Ander-lecht near Brussels. One of the world’s greatest scholars, Erasmus’ fame rests upon his work as the chief interpreter of the intellectual awakening from the Dark Ages for the peoples of northern Europe. It is now a museum.