Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
being during World War II as a military necessity. Built by the U.S. Army Engineers and assisted by the U.S. Public Roads Administration and numerous contractors, its total construction cost is estimated at about $140 millions. The 26 foot wide well graveled, permanent all-weather route of the highway stretches through pine-covered hills and around great mountains. It is the world’s most romantic, scenic wonder trail.
A 2,600 mile secondary road system connects farming, mining and industrial areas to the primary network. In addition to the connected network the system includes 570 miles of isolated roads linking inhabited areas with air, rail or water transportation facilities.
The Alaskan Railroad runs from Seward and Whittier, ports on the Kenai Peninsula and Prince William Sound through Anchorage to Fairbanks, a distance of a little over 470 miles. Branches serve farming and coal mining regions in the Matanuska Valley and the coal mines on the Healy River. Regular passenger and freight service is maintained all year.
From Nenana, 412 miles north of Seward, river boats are operated by the railroad on the Tanana and Yukon Rivers during the summer months carrying freight and passengers as far as Marshall. At Anchorage and Fairbanks the railroad connects with the central highway system. Under normal conditions regular steamship service is maintained all year between Seattle and principal Alaskan ports as far north as Seward where connections are made with the Alaska Railroad for Fairbanks and points en route. Seasonal service is normally maintained into the Bering Sea and Arctic Ocean.
Alaska is actually the fastest growing area under the United States Flag. Its total population is approximately 128,643 people in addition to 35,000 Indians, Aleuts and Eskimos. Its four major cities, Anchorage, Fair-
banks, Ketchikan and Juneau attract a large portion of the population but interest is increasing noticeably in other points of south central and interior Alaska.
Anchorage, Alaska’s largest city alternately referred to as the “Hub City” or the “Crossroads of the World,” has a population of 30,000. Modern and progressive it is the residential, business, service, professional, transportation and communication center of the state. Situated on Knik Arm, a northern tributary of Cook Inlet, highways radiate from the city to Seward, the Kenai Peninsula, the Matanuska Valley, Valdez, Fairbanks and the Alaska Highway. Headquarters of the Alaskan Railroad it is connected by rail with Seward, Whittier and Fairbanks.
Anchorage International Airport is one of the principal air centers of the world and is on a direct route to the Orient. It also has daily plane service to most Alaskan points and to the rest of the United States. The City is also the headquarters of our northern defense effort, — the Alaskan Air Command; the U.S. Army, Alaska; Elmendorf Air Force Base; and Fort Richardson Army Post. Its scenic assets include the Kenai Peninsula, Portage Glacier, Chugach and Talkeetna Mountains, the Alaska Range, and nearby Lake Spenard, a popular recreational area.
Fairbanks, terminus of the Alaskan Highway, and metropolis of Interior Alaska, is a gold mining and transportation center. The second largest city of Alaska, it is situated near the geographical center of the state 400 miles north of the Gulf of Alaska and 175 miles south of the Arctic Circle. It is located on the Alaska Highway and is a major commercial aviation center.
Fairbanks International Airport is a chief departure point for flight to Nome, Barrow, Wiseman, Kotzebue and points in the vast interior. Nonscheduled airlines serve outlying towns and mining camps and special tourist flights are made above the Arctic
BROOKS RIVER CAMP — Alaskans are as well used to airplanes as most Americans are to automobiles. In winter time, the owner of this one will install skiis for
operation from snow.
Circle during the summer. Daily plane service is available to Seattle.
Two large United States Air Force Basi** Ladd Field, a large cold weather test fleHj and Eielson Field are southeast of the city. The University of Alaska is three miles away at College. During World War II Fairbanks was an important link in the Lend-Lease Airway to Russia.
Ketchikan, the “Canned Salmon Capital of the World,” is a fishing, lumber, pulp and commercial center. It is located on Revil-lagigedo Island, 757 miles by sea and 650 miles by air north from Seattle, and separated from the mainland by mile-wide Behm Canal. The City is the first port of call in Alaska for northbound steamships. There is regular scheduled and chartered steamship freight service both north and south; steamship passengers service via Canada Steamships; and daily air passenger and freight service both north and south. No rail service exists. The City’s airport is located on nearby Annette Island. Tourist attractions include curio shops, a fish hatchery, canneries, a pulp mill, Ward Lake recreational area, and totem pole parks at Saxman and Mud Bight.
Juneau, capital of the state is a major distribution center. Located on Castineau Channel, 1,033 miles northwest of Seattle, it is connected by highway with Douglas on the opposite shore of the Channel. With a beautiful mountain setting the City is a transportation crossroad as well as a lumbering and fishing center. Its harbor is open all year and there is a good airport 9 miles fro^ the City. Juneau is the location of the worlH famous Alaska Juneau Gold Mine, now im active, which produced more than 12,000 tons of ore daily when operating. Visitors also enjoy Silver Bow Basin, Mendenhall Glacier, Douglas Island nearby. In all, there are twelve cities in Alaska with populations of 1,000 or more.
Then there is Nome, on the Seward Peninsula, built during the famous gold-rush days, and the main supply center for a large and rich placer mining district; Sitka on the west side of Baranof Island, surrounded by high peaks and small wooded islands, and one of the most historic communities in Alaska; and the village of North Pole located on Alaskan Highway about 14 miles from Fairbanks. Christmas is the latter village’s (350 population) year round business. Its name was chosen because of the value it would have at Christmas time. The postmaster, who is also the mayor and storekeeper, annually places a special North Pole stamp on approximately 200,000 Christmas letters. The town has a school, a cafe, two service stations, two taverns and a trading post.
Alaska is a challenge — to the farmer with its hundreds of thousands of potential agricultural acres; to the lumberman with its enormous timber stands; to the miner with its great quantities of minerals; to the indu^ trialist with its superabundant water pow<® to the traveler with its magnificent scener^ and to the sportsman for its immense game reserves and fishing resources. Travelers who accept the challenge will experience thrills which are hard to equal anywhere in the world.