Page T-2
PAJV A.ME RÍCA1V
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
WORÌD airways teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1959,Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
Douglas DC-8 Clipper
(Continued from page T-l)
Each engine of the DC-8 will be equipped with a thrust-reversing mechanism to slow the airplane after touchdown in the landing. Noise-reduction devices also are incorporated in the power-plant installations.
A speed brake permits rapid deceleration, high rates of descent and shorter landing distances.
A unique type of tandem landing gear is used on the DC-8. The rear pair of each set of four main-gear wheels are castered to preserve maneuverability in congested ramp areas.
The Douglas Aircraft Company’s background in the design and construction of jet aircraft embraces such famous military aircraft as the Skystreak and Skyrocket jets, the B-43, jet bomber, the F3D all-weather jet fighter and the F4D carrier based airplane, and others.
In the commercial field, the famous DC series has extended over more than 22 years from the DC-3 through a series including the DC-4, DC-6, DC-7 and DC-7C.
Miami-New York via Jet
(Continued from page T-l)
a perfect example of flying “above the weather.” Before telling how the flight so exemplified this capability of the Jet Clipper, and in deference to the pride of Floridians in their winter weather, it must be stated that Miami on December 31 was enjoying balmy atmosphere and pleasant sunshine. But a few minutes northward, as the Jet Clipper flies, was the edge of a weather disturbance.
So the “Fasten Seat Belts” signs did not go off for some time after departure. The 707 climbed at a steep angle for the first few minutes, then continued to climb at a lesser angle, through air which was either turbulent or presented the threat of turbulence, until the airplane was at 33,000 feet. Only then did the National Air Lines Captain level off, and proceed on his course, in brilliant sunlight above the top layer of clouds.
In my seat in the forward, or de luxe, pas-
senger compartment, there was no noise, and the only sound was a slight whooshing and a low whistle. There was no vibration. And even during the period when the seat belt signs were on, there was no appreciable bumpiness in the airplane’s flight.
My seat mate was a college boy returning to New England to resume his class work after a Christmas vacation in Florida. I asked him if the college student movement southward had been a big one this year, knowing in advance what his answer would be. “Yes.” Of course. He told me he was taking college work to prepare for a career in public relations.
My neighbors across the aisles consisted of a family group, Polly Bergen, the singer and TV personality with her husband and little daughters.
The other passengers appeared to be mostly returning winter vacationers, with probably a sprinkling of business travelers.
Once the aircraft was on a level course above the clouds, and the seat belts were put aside, the stewardesses served first cocktails, and then a tasty luncheon. For beverage and meal service, the 707 has seat back tables — your individual table lets down from the back of the seat in front of you — a real improvement over the removable trays which have to be maneuvered into place by the stewardess. The table is available at any time, of course, for writing or to hold your book or newspaper.
JET CLIPPER MODEL
The photograph shows Aurora's plastic model of the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper.
This model is completely authentic, including official markings.
The wing spread is 16 inches. Landing gear is in a fixed position, so that model on display is in approximately the altitude of the airplane immediately after take-off, or before landing. Or the landing gear may be omitted, if desired, to give the effect of flight at altitude.
Assembly time is about two hours, and the model can be assembled by a ten-year-old boy.
If you want a model for display in the class room, this is a leading possibility.
The kit is available at hobby shops, chain stores, toy and department stores. Price, about $2.00. (Not available from Pan American.)
Shortly after the luncheon service had been completed, the little panels in the overhead pods which house stewardess call bu|g tons, ventilator controls etc. again lightB up with the legend “Fasten Seat Belts.” ^ this point we were still about a half hour from the International Airport at Idlewild, and once again were starting the let-down through the cloud cover. This one had little turbulence, nor was it very deep. We broke out underneath in time to have a view of the lights of Philadelphia out of the left hand windows, and those of Atlantic City on the right.
By this time we were virtually on the approach to the runway at Idlewild — at any rate we were cleared by Approach Traffic Control and then the Airport Tower to approach directly and land immediately. This, by the way, is part of a pattern of operation which you will note in flying the jet aircraft, a pattern involving both the takeoffs and the landings.
Because the jets gulp down prodigious amounts of high grade kerosene fuel, especially on takeoff, procedures have been worked out so that they need not wait at the end of the runway, with engines operating, waiting for a place in the sequence of departures. This does not mean, however, that the jets are given special consideration ahead of the piston aircraft. It means that if they do have to “stand in line” they do it at the ramp, before starting the engines.
It works out something like this: The Captain calls the Tower by radio and sa^ he’ll be ready to go at such and such ti The Tower says OK, I’ll put you down takeoff at such and such time, which may be a little later than the one mentioned by the Captain, because other aircraft are lining up for departure. If so, the Captain will wait for the moment which will give him the correct timing, then start the engines. He’ll move away from the ramp, proceed to the end of the runway and take off, and in this process perhaps will move past two or three piston engine aircraft waiting at the end of the runway. But note that he is not displacing them in takeoff position, but simply checking in at the proper time for his assigned takeoff priority.
ine
sa^^R|
w
The termination of a jet flight is straight to the airport and directly on to the runway, whenever possible, as in the case of our Miami-New York flight. The Jet Clipper does carry fuel to permit it to “hold” if necessary, or to proceed to an alternate airport, plus a reserve. This is basic to the operation of airplanes. But new patterns are being developed by the Federal Aviation Agency (successor, since January 1, to the Civil Aeronautics Administration) and the air lines.
Jet flights, even clear across the ocean, are accomplished in short time intervals, so there is less opportunity for changing weather conditions to alter flight pi; more opportunity to set a flight plan can be followed to the minute. Exact for touchdown can be assigned well in advance. Pilots even are looking forward to the possibility, on short flights, of having clearance for landing at destination before leaving the ground at the point of departure.