BY FLYING CUPPER TO
ALASKA
Page 5
NOME — Father is carving walrus ivory, Mother is sewing mukluks, which are made
from walrus hide.
mistic about the future — things will get better soon.
Anchorage — the Biggest City
This frontier city seems poised on the edge of a multimillion-dollar boom. Oil has been discovered on the Kenai Peninsula to the north. Only one well has proved out as a major producer so far, yet the evidence of extensive deposits is so promising that some oil companies have agreed to spend millions of dollars in the operation.
The town is filled with geologists and oil executives. Hotel rooms are at a premium. Anchorage is one of the most colorful towns on U.S. soil. It is a long way from the outside. The city is 1,448 air miles northwest of Seattle and only about 375 miles south of the Arctic Circle, yet it is a big bustling place. With a population of some 95,000 Anchorage is by far the biggest city in Alaska. One can fish for salmon from just about any bridge in town, bump into a moose in the backyard, or walk into a shop and spend a thousand dollars on hi-fi equipment or china and silver. There are two television stations in town and the usual jungle of roof-top antennas. Anchorage has an amateur symphony orchestra — and still it has many log cabins around. Side by side with log cabins, there are two 14-story apartment buildings. Next year a new university will be built — to be called Alaska Methodist University. It will be the second university in the new state.
Despite its fine shops and the rows of supersonic fighters parked at Elmendorf Air Force Base, Anchorage is a northern frontier town and the visitor quickly is made aware of that fact. The wilderness of Alaska, raw and untamed, begins in earnest only a few miles from the city’s neon-emblazoned thoroughfares. Forbidding mountains, some with glacial rivers spilling down their slopes, ring the city on three sides. Cook Inlet, one of the
most dangerous stretches of water in the world, crowds Anchorage on the fourth side. Just a few years ago, Anchorage got a rude reminder that it still is a part of that region, whatever else it may try to be. Mount Spurr, 80 miles away, exploded in a volcanic upheaval, dumping a cloud of black ash on the city. It was so dark that people, according to some witnesses, bumped into each other on the streets at noon.
Though situated near the 61st parallel, Anchorage has a climate that isn’t much different from many cities in the mainland U.S. The town sometimes gets temperatures of 30 to 40 degrees below zero in the winter months, but the mercury usually remains at around zero during the coldest days of the year. In summer, temperatures of 65 degrees are usual and readings in the high 80s are not unusual.
Anchorage is the “air crossroads of the North,” or, as it says on the neon sign hanging across Fourth Avenue, “ANCHORAGE -ALL-AMERICA CITY.”
Other Cities
Fairbanks with its surrounding area has a population of some 55,000 people. Here are located the U.S. Air Force bases. Gold is still big around here. The U.S. Smelting and Mining Company operates six large dredges, does a business of 10 million to 12 million dollars a year. The tourist business contributes a lot to the economy of the city. Visitors come in three ways: by air, most of them, by bus or car up the Alaska Highway from Whitehorse in the Yukon Territory and up from Seward and Anchorage over the Alaska Railroad. Fairbanks has many modern hotels. The University of Alaska, four miles west of the city, plays an important part in the life of the region. The university has a 2,200-acre site and its own small town of colleges.
Nome is a U.S. outpost on guard. The Air
than a thousand forms, each having a meaning of its own.
Let us suppose you want to learn the 'anguage. Simply ask an Eskimo who speaks English “what is your word for knife?”. He will answer “savik.” And then you ask again, “what is your word for big?” Whereupon the answer will be “angirok.” Now, you think, I know how to say big knife. But you do not, for the Eskimo does not say “big knife.” He inflects the word and a “big knife” is not “savik angirok” or “angirok savik.” It is “savipuk.” Suppose now you take the word iglu (shelter of any sort). Iglupuk means a large house; Iglunkuak, a make-believe or playhouse; iglorak, a wooden house; igluliak, a house that someone built, and so on for several hundred variations of one word iglu.
Because Eskimo proved too difficult for others to learn, there grew up a trading language; a trading jargon of Chinook, which is dying, but which has enriched the American language with a few permanent contributions and a number of A knowledge of this jargon was indispensable to white traders who used it extensively in Alaska during the second half of the 19th century.
Although the Chinook jargon had a vocabulary of over 500 words, it had no grammar. It varied from place to place. Chinook borrowed from English such words as house, stick, and boat. Many English words would not carry over into Chinook because the Indians could not pronounce certain letters — thus fish became pish and carbine, cali-
een. There are Chinook expressions still
sed, such as chuck (water, steam), hiyun (plenty), iglu (sod house, any Eskimo dwelling), kayak (single-passenger skin boat), uniak (large skin boat).
Juneau — Capital City
Alaska’s capital city stands on the steep lower slopes of Mount Juneau and Mount Roberts, at the water’s edge but separated from the open ocean by a hundred miles of islands and channels. One reaches Juneau either by boat or air. It is a city of some 7000 people. Juneau is a town of narrow streets, steep hills, fishing harbor, seaplane docks, smart homes and modest native houses. A recent report on Juneau contains the following figures: “29 apartment houses, 17 bars, 8 liquor stores, 1 dairy, 1 book shop, 9 women’s clothing stores, 19 restaprants, 2 newspapers, 2 banks, 1 television and 2 radio stations, 2 movie theaters, 6 dentists, 9 physicians, 2 hospitals, and 1 funeral director.” This is quite indicative of the facilities at the service of Juneau’s inhabitants.
Climate in this part of Alaska is mild, but moist. It has a mean temperature of 56 in July and 30 in January. The town people will tell you with pride that their city is the only place in the world where you can drive your car up to the foot of a glacier. You can stand in summer clothing across the lake
I from the glacier and watch chunks of ice as »ig as a six-story building drop off into the water. Not far away from it, children swim off a gravel beach.
Juneau is a cosmopolitan community. You see there more men wearing suit coats and ties than anywhere else in this region. The cost of living is high but people are opti-