Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Force is building here a chain of radar and radio stations along the coasts of the Arctic Ocean and the Bering Sea. From the Westernmost tip of the Alaskan mainland to the Easternmost tip of the Asian mainland is a distance of only 54 miles. Little Diomede Island, which is U.S. territory, is only two miles from Big Diomede Island, where the Soviet hammer and sickle flies. In wintertime, when the Bering Straits are frozen over, a walk from one hemisphere to another is possible. The Eskimos used to do it regularly in pre-World War II days. Now, however, the Russians have lowered the Iron Curtain on the Eskimos as well.
Aside from airplanes and one television station, Nome has not changed much lately. The main street is lined with frame store fronts reminiscent of the Wild West movies.
Info the Future
So on January 3, 1959, the United States picked up a new frontier state, a vast treasure chest of iced-in natural resources, a strategic base with frontiers on the Bering
Straits three miles from Asia. The United States also picked up in Alaska its first noncontiguous state, and thus added a new dimension — a new promise — to the Union that had grown from Plymouth Rock and Philadelphia through Appomattox and Omaha Beach to become the bulwark of the free world.
The new state has elected four top officers — Governor, two Senators and one Representative. There will be many problems during the transitional period, but Alaskans will solve them.
The new state has a great deal to offer to the tourist, the sportsmen, and the adventurer in search of dramatic scenery and unspoiled wilderness. It is relatively easy to reach many places in the southcentral part of Alaska by road. And if you want to visit a remote Eskimo village in the far north, a bush plane can probably take you there. The continental frontier has vanished, but Alaska is still a frontier land, little used and sparsely peopled, one of the few remaining frontiers in our air age.
ALASKA: Industry, Trade and Resources
by Lou Phillips
After Secretary of State William H. Seward convinced Congress, and the purchase of Alaska from Russia took place, many referred to the territory as Seward’s Folly, but this so-called foolish bargain proved to be a veritable treasure house from which the United States has gained millions of dollars in gold, copper, fish, furs and timber. Each year Alaska produces more than twice its purchase price in minerals alone.
In the beginning little thought was given either to the wealth of the land or its development. From 1867 to 1884 responsibility for the area was shifted from the United States Army, to the Treasury Department represented by a Deputy Collector of Customs and then to the United States Navy.
Finally in 1884, Congress provided for the appointment of a Governor and the organization of a Government in the District of Alaska under the Secretary of the Interior. A temporary capital was located at Sitka. There seems to be no official date for the opening of the Governor’s Office in Juneau but the move took place in September, 1906.
As a Territory, entrance into world prominence came in the late 1890’s with the discovery of gold on the Klondike in the Canadian Yukon which caused the famous gold rush and stampede to Alaska’s Yukon River Area. And throughout the years gold has outranked the output of all other minerals combined.
Actual production of other minerals derived thus far has been largely of the high value low-volume type (like gold) which can be concentrated into marketable form under frontier conditions. As Alaska develops, more of its minerals will be produced for local processing and consumption as well as for shipment to outside markets. Gold will probably continue to be the leading mineral product but an increased and diversified output
of base metals, non-metallic minerals, construction materials and fuels is also expected. A quick review of some of the mineral resources of the state shows the strong foundation for this assumption.
The Juneau and Chichagof lode gold districts, the Ketchikan and Hyder mining districts and a number of smaller mineralized areas are in southeastern Alaska. These regions have deposits of antimony, iron-copper, copper-palladium, molybdenite, tungsten, lead-silver, uranium-thorium, lead-zinc, pyrite and nickel. There also has been commercial production from enormous reserves of marble and high-calcium limestone. Copper and copper lodes are distributed widely in the Prince William Sound region and have been mined at several places on a commercial scale. A number of minerals are present in the Alaska Railroad Belt, including gold, copper, antimony, zinc and chromite. A three hundred mile belt of tertiary rocks along the Gulf of Alaska offers favorable petroleum possibilities. Bituminous coal is present in the same area.
The Copper River Region is known chiefly for the copper-bearing lodes which came from the properties of the Kennecott Copper Corporation but the principal mines have been worked out and closed. Gold is also present.
Southwestern Alaska has resources of gold, platinum, quicksilver, antimony, copper and coal.
The Yukon Region, tributary to the Yukon River, contains many placer gold districts with a large aggregate production. Petroleum possibilities are present in two portions of the area, — Koyukuk province (55,000 square miles in west central Alaska), and Kandik province (70,000 square miles adjacent to the Canadian border).
The principal mineral production of the
Seward Peninsula has been mainly gold, but tin, platinum, graphite, garnet and coal have been mined.
Northern Alaska has gold bearing gravel: coal, copper, silver, columbite, tantalite and other rare minerals in addition to some lignitic coal, jade and high grade asbestos.
Oil possibilities also exist north of the Arctic Circle. In fact oil exploration is going on in several parts of Alaska with virtually all American companies spending millions in the work.
Mineral production has an estimated value of $21,000,000, and the search for new deposits goes on. Well organized and financed prospecting crews using geochemical and geophysical methods, with full time helicopter support are on the increase. After a period of inactivity since the Nineteen Thirties in the field of mineral exploration, Alaska is finally the subject of renewed interest from mining companies.
Approximately, the equivalent of 1,000 full time people are engaged in mining but because of climatic conditions nearly all such activity operates only during half the year. Another 300 persons are employed in petroleum drilling. But the principal industry of Alaska which serves as a source of income for approximately 30,000 people is the catching and processing of fish. The value of such products annually prepared for market averages about $90,000,000. About forty percent of the people in the industry are fishermen who receive annually approx imately $28,000,000 for unprocessed fish.
Salmon account for ninety percent of thu value of fish caught and processed. Some salmon are marketed fresh, frozen, mild cured and salted, but the major portion is canned. The first salmon cannery was erected in 1878 and expansion was fairly steady thereafter. Of the approximately one hundred canneries operating today the majority are modern high speed plants using automatic machinery and requiring a large capital investment. A modern plant usually cans about five hundred to one thousand one-pound cans per minute. Such high speed plants are necessary because of the extremely short duration of most of the runs.
Other commercial fish include halibut, herring, sablefish, clams, crabs, shrimp and cod. Attempts were made to can halibut as early as 1906 but were not successful for technical reasons. These difficulties have been overcome in recent years, but the canned product never has been able to compete with the fresh or frozen version. In addition, halibut livers and viscera used for reduction into vitamin oils have found a market since 1932. Herring is used primarily for reduction purposes in the manufacture of oil and meal, with the exception of a small quantity taken for bait.
Agriculture in Alaska is a subject of constant study and research. Exploratory investigations reveal that the state is capable of producing forty-five to fifty-five percent o its own requirements of agricultural prod ucts instead of approximately ten percent, the quantity now produced.
One of the greatest factors hindering efficient farming and proper agricultural development in Alaska since World War II has
4