Page T-4
F»¿VrV AMERICAttf
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
TEEN-AGE DELEGATES ARRIVE IN NEW YORK FOR HERALD TRIBUNE FORUM
Pointing out their own countries on the world map are, left to right, Hope Allison, Nigeria; Yukiko Yamakami, Japan; Esther Suh, Korea, and Nii Tetteh-Churu Quao, Ghana.
On March 21 when 34 teen-age students from 34 countries gather at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel to present the New York Herald Tribune Forum for High Schools, it will mark the 13th year which, the newspaper and Pan American World Airways., have cooperated torturing youhg foreign representatives to the Uniteci States for this program.	•
Delegates arrived at Idlewilcf International Airport — many of them on Christmas Day— and were met by Pan American public relations representatives, then taken by American host students to Kober House on the Sarah Lawrence College campus, Bronxville, New York, where they spent a week getting acquainted with each other during the holiday season. On January 2 the first of four American families who will entertain them picked them up at Bronxville and drove them to their homes.
Forum delegates will spend three months in the United States and each will live with four families for two-week periods. During each two-week period the visitor will attend high school classes with a member of the host family. Schools in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania are participating in the program.
In February the Forum group will travel together with the director, Mrs. Theodore Waller, to Williamsburg, Virginia, Washington, D. C., and Hagerstown, Maryland. Under the sponsorship of Colonial Williamsburg, the second session of the Student Burgesses will be held between Forum delegates and American teen-agers. Such a meeting was tried last year when the foreign students visited and in February the 49 states will send representatives to Williamsburg for another series of panel discussions and open debates.
Scholastic Magazines will sponsor the group’s stay in the American capital, where
By Lorraine Kure
Lining up after their arrival in the United States via Pan Am Clipper are, left to right, Phan Thi Ngoc Lan, Vietnam; Yuen Chooi Yeng, Singapore; Khin Aye Daniels, Burma; Kustijah Prodjolalito, Indonesia; and Bisidthisak Subarnbhesaj, Thailand.
sight seeing, talks with Senators and Representatives, and visits to the students own embassies will take up the time. From Washington the group will go on to Hagerstown where they will observe and participate in an experiment being carried on in teaching by closed-circuit television. Six television studios have been set up in the schools and lectures from these studios are piped to 25 nearby schools.
The last two weeks which the teen-agers are in America they will spend together preparing their Forum program. About 2,000 students, — teachers, and members of host families are expected to attend the event.
Mrs. Waller and four members of the group have already launched the 1959 annual television discussion program, “Young Worlds,” on CBS-TV with a discussion of “Image of America.” The half-hour TV program will run for 13 weeks over the CBS network and will be heard on Saturday afternoons from 4:30 to 5:00 o’clock, E.S.T. (Channel 2).
Pan American World Airways this year is providing round-trip transportation for delegates including Adolfo José Crosa, Buenos Aires, Argentina; Alice Evelyn Munro, Sao Paulo, Brazil; Khin Aye Daniels, Kamayul, Burma; Ejvind Bonderup, Hundstrup, Denmark; Kaarina Honkapohja,Savonlinna, Finland; Jorg-Ingo Weber, Berlin, Germany; Nii Tetteh-Churu Quao, Accra, Ghana; Jon Gunnarsson, Reykjavik, Iceland; Kustijah Prodjolalito, Jogjakarta, Indonesia; Mariam Daftary, Tehran, Iran; Yukiko Yamakami, Sendai, Japan; Esther Suh, Séoul, Korea; Nadia Domian, Beirut, Lebanon; Hope Allison, Abraka, Nigeria; Roger Harboe.Halden, Norway; Rafia Ayub, Karachi, Pakistan; Yuen Chooi Yeng, Singapore; Bisidthisak Subarnbhesaj, Bangkok; Thailand; Hasan
Gucliiyildiz, Bursa, Turkey; Marita Wessels, Johannesburg, Union of South Africa; and Phan Thi Ngoc Lan, Cholon, Vietnam.
Other countries participating are Ceyl^B Ethiopia, France, Greece, India, Israel, It,^| Jordan, Philippines, Sudan, United Arab Republic, United Kingdom and Yugoslavia.
To become a delegate to the Forum a student must be between 16 to 18 years of age, have a good command of the English language and compete in a national essay contest in his own country. Each participating country’s Ministry of Education sponsors the contest and then interviews finalists. From these the delegate is chosen. The air line provides free transportation for the winners.

Sipping their first American ice cream sodas are, left to right, Jon Gunnarsson, Iceland; Kaarina Honkapohja, Finland, and Roger Harboe, Norway.