BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
ALASKA
ALASKA
^JGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Do we know enough about our 49th state?
A.	Reason for Selection:
1.	Since Alaska has become the 49th state in our Union it behooves each of us to become familiar with it and to study it as we have the other 48.
2.	As a new state what will its rich resources contribute to all of us?
3.	With world conditions as they are, and Alaska and Russia so close, we should become more familiar with conditions in this area.
4.	Air transportation has done so much to bring Alaska to readiness for Statehood.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Three weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	APPROACH:
1.	Use of current news items, radio and television programs, heralding Alaska’s admission to the Union.
2.	Review of the growth of the United States as other states were admitted to the Union and a comparison.
3.	Current items of interest about a new flag and similar incidents each time states were added to the Union.
4.	Review of the history of Alaska and its progress to statehood.
5.	Reading of current magazine articles on Alaska bringing out the views of those who favored admission, those who did not, with their reasons.
6.	Discussion of United States defenses id Alaska and their importance because of its location.
7.	Showing some of the movies listed in this issue as a basis for future discussion.
B.	SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	What has Alaska to offer to the United States through its industries and products?
2.	How has the use of the airplane helped progress in Alaska?
3.	What must we know about the people of Alaska and their customs?
4.	Will the strategic position of Alaska play an important part in future world events?
5.	What do we know of the spectacular beauty of Alaska?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER:
1.	Social Studies: entrance to U.S. as 49th state, December 1958; another star added to flag officially, July 4, 1959; size; location; Mt. McKinley now tallest peak in United States; Mount McKinley National Park, 2nd largest in U.S., Indians call it Denali, “home of the Sun”; population; Klondike gold rush; Eskimos, Aleuts and Indians; Aleutian Islands, Kodiak Island, Pri-
bilof, Point Barrow, most northerly point; Arctic Ocean, Bering Sea; large number of armed forces changing many habits and customs; travel difficult because of distances between communities, hence, plane became very popular; Yukon River; high cost of living; discovery in 1741 by Vitus Bering; purchase by U.S.; products such as gold, copper, platinum, mercury, salmon, herring, halibut, oil, natural gas; furs; seal, mink, lynx, muskrat, beaver, fox; capital, Juneau; cities, Anchorage, Fairbanks, Ketchikan, Sitka, Nome; hunting bear, moose; caribou, deer, mountain goats; forests, pulp, hemlock, Sitka spruce, Alaskan cedar, birch, cotton-wood; water power abundant; potential of agriculture; climate; Arctic circle; Little Diomede and Big Diomede, in winter often possible to walk the few miles to U.S.S.R.; Government, an elected governor, William A. Egan; two senators, E. L. Bartlett and Ernest Greuning, and one representative, Ralph J. Rivers; University of Alaska; Alayakesa, Aleut word meaning “Great Land”; in World War II Attu and Kiska occupied by Japanese.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words: — words of Indian origin; kayaks, parkas, igloo; “sourdoughs”, those who have lived in Alaska; “cheechakos”, newcomers; new words in this issue.
b.	Literature: — books listed in this issue; Robert W. Service, wrote of Alaska.
c.	Oral and Written communication: — finding all the latest information on Alaska by interviewing and writing; discussing admission to the U.S. and contributions of Alaska; planning a plane trip to Alaska, checking places of interest to visit; writing an imaginary visit to Mt. McKinley National Park; or an interview with an Eskimo and with the new governor of Alaska; reporting on the many books about Alaska; introducing the new state to the class or other classes.
3.	Science: — misconception about climate of Alaska, not entirely a land of ice and snow, range in temperature; “land of the midnight sun”; Mt. St. Elias range, one of largest ice fields in world; chain of volcanoes; flowers and berries; variety of bears, especially the Kodiak, and other animals; abundance and size of fish; size of farm produce; Juneau, built on gold; customs of the Eskimos; “forget me not”, official flower; Pribilof Islands, breeding grounds for seals; “Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes”; DEW Line military installations.
4.	Art and Music: — consists mostly of contributions of the Eskimo and the Indians. Thingits and Haidas, totem pole carriers; Eskimo dancers and musicians; native handwork.
5.	Health: — services are limited because
Page 9
of sparsity of population and distances; plane has been immense help in carrying medicine in and carrying out people who need medical care; outdoor sports; fish one of main foods; many items we consider staples are very expensive because they must be imported.
6.	Mathematics: — a good deal of work on graphs and percentages, population facts, production figures, mileage, time needed to go from one place to another; values of furs, minerals, timber; heights of mountains; cost of trip to and through Alaska; cost of defense installations.
B.	SKILLS: — in this unit emphasis should be placed on reading to gather definite information; ability to report and discuss facts.
C.	ATTITUDES, INTEREST AND UNDERSTANDINGS:
1.	To bring about an understanding of all that this new state has to offer.
2.	To create an interest in learning all there is to know about Alaska.
3.	To realize that many misconceptions are prevalent about life in Alaska.
4.	To understand the changes that have come about in recent years, the modernization that has gone on.
5.	To feel that Alaska is ready to take its place in the parade of States.
6.	To realize how much the airplane has done and will continue to do in Alaska and in similar places.
7.	To appreciate the importance of the strategic position of Alaska.
V.	SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A.	THINGS TO DO:
1.	Start a bulletin board of current news events about Alaska.
2.	Collect pictures of the beautiful scenic wonders of Alaska.
3.	Make a production chart of the resources of Alaska.
4.	Read more about Alaska. Use the bilbiography in this issue.
5.	Plan a trip from your home town to Alaska. Route all the places of interest you wish to visit.
6.	Make slides of interesting places in Alaska.
7.	Draw a map of Alaska showing the cities and most important geographic data so that you will become familiar with this new state.
8.	Draw the flag of Alaska.
9.	Display products from Alaska.
10.	Ask someone who has been to Alaska to visit and talk with your class.
B.	CULMINATION:
1.	Show some of the movies mentioned in this issue in an assembly and have members of your class add data from their reports.
2.	Have a panel discuss the new state and the contributions it will make to the United States.