Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
ways. America’s last frontier is growing by leaps and bounds. Industries are springing up. Gold mining, commercial fishing and canneries, the forest industry. For the visitor, thrilling fishing, big game hunting, mountain climbing, great National Parks and famous Glacier Bay.
FISHING ARCTIC STYLE-11 min., sound, black and white, color. Bailey Films, Inc., 6509 De Longpre Ave., Hollywood 28, Calif.
The first sequence shows methods employed by Alaskan Eskimo women and children in fishing the Kobuk river for humpback salmon. Large hand-made seins are used. A second sequence shows methods used by Eskimos in fishing through holes in the ice, using both barbless hooks and gill nets. Produced by Eskimoland Pictures.
ALASKA RIVER VOYAGE - 4 min. silent, black and white and color. World In Cólor Productions, Box 392, Elmira, New York. Depicts a voyage on the Alaska River in Southeastern Alaska.
ALASKA WONDERLAND - 4 min. silent, black and white, color. World In Color Productions, Box 392, Elmira, New York. Scenes of the Alaska interior in summer and winter.
Filmstrips
ALASKA, THE 49th STATE - 40 frames, silent with captions, color. Film Strip-of-the-Month Club, Inc., 355 Lexington Ave., New York 17.
(This filmstrip is one of the series of the Elementary Social Studies Club of the Film Strip-of-the-Month Club.)
The filmstrip portrays in detail the growth and development of Alaska from its purchase to the present day set-up. It stresses Alaska’s location as an essential to the outer defenses of the United States. Since its purchase from Russia in 1867, Alaska has been called “Seward’s Folly”, “Seward’s Icebox” and “the land of icebergs and polar bears”. It remained almost forgotten for years, but the discovery of gold in the Klondike brought thousands of prospectors to Alaska. Many of them settled permanently. Though Alaska is often thought of as the home of Eskimos and parka-clad fur trappers, more than half of its citizens live in towns and cities. Alaska is a land of contrasts, the temperature' may sink to 72 degrees below in winter, but it rises to about 100 degrees in the summer. Since its purchase in 1867, Alaska’s forests, waters and mines have yielded billions of dollars, yet its resources have barely been tapped.
ALASKA — 81 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Life Magazine and Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1343 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111.
A story of the opening of America’s last frontier, a look’ at the boom-and-bust days of the great gold rush. An appraisal of Alaska’s growing importance as a military object and supplier of raw materials.
ALASKA — 31 frames, silent with captions, color. Educational Projections, Inc., 10 East 40th Street, New York 16, N. Y.
Produced by Curriculum Films, Inc. — one of the series of the “Westward Expansion of the U. S.” Explains how Alaska became Russian territory and how the Tsar sold it to the U. S. Depicts Alaska before the gold rush and the development of its resources since that time.
PIONEERS AND SETTLERS OF ALASKA
—	24 frames, silent with captions, color. Educational Projections, Inc., 10 East 40th St., New York 16, N. Y.
Produced by Curriculum Films, Inc. — one of the series of “Pioneers and Settlers of the U. S.” This filmstrip shows how Alaska, neglected when a Russian possession, was acquired by the U. S. Depicts its growth from its initial slow development — the Yukon goldrush — the organization of territorial government — the development of its resources — the recognition of its importance brought about by World War II.
ALASKA, THE LAND AND ITS PEOPLE-49 frames, silent with captions, color. Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1343 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago, 111.
This filmstrip is one of the series “Canada and the Far North”, and is correlated with the text books published by Rand McNally, “Geography of the American Peoples”. Photographs of the life of the people in changing Alaska are shown, and also scenes of the pioneer settlements, villages and methods of transportation.
ALASKA - 20TH CENTURY FRONTIER
—	40 frames, black and white, silent with captions. Current Affairs Films 527 Madison Ave., New York.
ft
On June 30th, 1958 Congress passed a bill admitting Alaska as the 49th State. To some people Alaska is little more than a strata military area; others imagine an isol frontier outpost composed of primitive miTT ing towns, inhabited chiefly by Eskimos. Alaska today does retain many aspects of a frontier but its outlook is distinctly modern and its potential is great. This film strip takes a close look at the newest state, determining its assets and importance, exploring its problems and explaining what statehood will mean to both Alaska and the rest of the United States.
Records
The Eskimos of Hudson Bay and Alaska (FE 4444).
Folkways Records, 117 West 46th Street,
N. Y. C., 33lA rpm longplay record.
One of the fascinating things to learn about the 49th State of the Union—Alaska— is “panting music”. Although industrialization is rapidly making headway in Alaska, the songs and music of the ancient Eskimo people are still part of their traditional expression. Hunting and fishing is still a large factor in their existence and their music includes many songs about this, as well as play songs, lullabies, story songs, social songs, festival music and game songs. In fact if you were to speak to one of the music makers, he would say: “Music makes the old young and the drum is the beating heart.” All this is described in the accompanying booklet to this longplay folkwjj Record, which includes detailed backgroij notes and unusual photographs.
am-
*
ALASKA
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons"
LOCATION . . . Alaska lies in the far northwest corner of the North American continent and includes the Aleutian Islands. The Alaska mainland is due north of Honolulu. The Aleutians extend as far west as New Zealand.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . The name “Alaska” was derived from an Aleut word meaning “great land,” and Alaska lives up to every inch of its name, with the highest mountains on the North American continent (Mt. McKinley, 20,300 feet) and rivers long and mighty (Yukon, 2,300 miles). It’s a big and beautiful country from the steep-walled fjords of the southeast to the wide horizons of the Bering Sea coast. In the summer the sun shines 18 to 24 hours. In winter it’s a Jack Frost wonderland awesomely illuminated by the Northern Lights. It’s also a sportsmen’s favorite, with big fish and big game.
POPULATION • • • One of the fastest-growing regions under the American flag. Alaska’s total population is 226,300; of which about 47,000 are military and about 35,000 are Indian, Aleut and Eskimo. Alaska’s largest city is Anchorage, headquarters for the Alaska Defense Command, with a metropolitan population of 60,000. There are 12 cities with a population of more than 1,000 persons.
SIZE . . . 586,400 square miles — more than twice the size of Texas.
CAPITAL • • • Juneau, with a population of 5,956. Greater Juneau, however, has a population of 10,000.
GOVERNMENT . . . Purchased in IJ867 from Russia for $7,200,000, or less than two cents an acre, Alaska became an organized territory of the United States in 1912. On July 1, 1958 Congress passed a bill providing for the admittance of Alaska as the 49th state, and on January 3, 1959, the President signed the official proclamation of admittance. Alaska has a State Legislature composed of 16 senators and 24 representatives which meets every two years.
The information presented above is from the PAA travel book “New Horizons World (1959 edition.)
It contains over 16,000 facts about 89 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.