Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Our trip to Alaska takes us to the newest and largest state, still chock-full of the pioneering spirit.
The enormous size and limited population of Alaska help to explain why air travel is its most important, and in some areas, only, means of transportation. There are only 976 miles of highway and 560 miles of railroad in Alaska so, if you want to get from here to there, you’ll either have to fly or, if you have the time, travel by boat.
From Seattle, Washington, you may reach Alaska by steamer, the Alaska Highway, or air. By highway, it takes a week to drive from its beginning in Dawson Creek, British Columbia (milepost 0) to Fairbanks. By steamer to Juneau, it takes 3 days, and 3 more days via railroad to Fairbanks. By
Clipper, the Seattle-Fairbanks flight is only 6 hours.
The Seattle-Ketchikan flight takes only 2i/2 hours and from Ketchikan to Juneau, another 13A hours. Other points are easily reached by connecting lines. Round trip, first class fares from Seattle are: Ketchikan, $95.40 and Juneau, $108. Incidentally, due to the coastal mountain range, Ketchikan has very little “flat” surface, so that the airport is actually on Annette Island and you take a smaller plane operated by Ellis Airline to the mainland. Ketchikan cannot be reached by either rail or road due to the mountain range to its east.
You may book your trip through any Pan American Sales Office or through a travel agent. Many experienced travelers use a
travel agent’s services since they represent a wide variety of transportation, hotel and tour services in all price brackets. Ofteng they can save you time and money by saffl guarding you against mistakes and blunders that might be not only embarrassing, but costly as well. They do not charge you any more than if you were to make arrangements on your own since they receive a commission from the companies they represent, not the traveler.
Since Alaska is now a state, United States citizens may travel between Alaska and any other state without any special proof of citizenship. However, it might be a good idea to take along proof of citizenship such as a passport, birth certificate, or voters’ registration for re-entry, in case you decide to visit Whitehorse, Canada, in the Yukon Territory. There are no special health certificates necessary, either.
Alaska is not a land of ice and snow. It is in the same latitudes as Norway, Sweden and Scotland. In the Arctic and in the area around Fairbanks, it is dry and cold with subzero temperatures, but not too much snow, during the winter, but quite warm and sunny during the summer months. In fact, in Fairbanks it may get warm enough to be comfortable in your shirtsleeves around noontime in the summer.
Anchorage and the Kenai Peninsular area have weather comparable to the weather found in the Midwestern states.
The southern coastal areas, including Juj neau and Ketchikan, are warmed by tlJ Japanese currents and the West Wind Drini — prevailing winds from the west bring warmth to the land — the situation is much like that of the Gulf Stream in relation to western Europe. There is more snow and rain in these areas, but the temperatures are not extreme, summers are warm and winters not too cold. The best months to visit are May through October.
You can see according to the above, the same type and weight of clothing as that worn in Midwestern and Northern United States in the spring arid fall are appropriate. Since informality is the keynote of Alaska, dress clothes are not needed. Best bets are slacks, wool suits, tweeds, sweaters and rainwear. In addition to sightseeing, Alaska affords a great variety of activities such as mountain climbing, hiking, fishing, hunting and skiing, and swimming along the southern coastal areas and in warm springs at some resort areas. Naturally, clothing appropriate to these activities is necessary. Since you are allowed to carry up to 66 pounds of baggage free, this shouldn’t present any problem.
Alaska is a photographer’s paradise, so take along plenty of film and don’t be afraid if you run out, it’s available at drug and camera stores throughout the state.
Alaska offers so many contrasts, and is so rich in history and adventure that it shouM not be visited until one has studied as muiSI as possible about it. This will make your trip much more enjoyable and worthwhile. One of the most convenient ways to do this is through the study unit plan presented on the following pages.