BY HYING CLIPPER TO
ALASKA
Page 7
been the lack of information available to settlers concerning land capability, utiliza-n and availability. Intensive research and mination of present and poredtial agricultural areas to determine their extent, relative productivity, livestock requirements, ability to support population, prospective products, markets and technical problems of development are providing the basic information for the establishment and maintenance of a permanent and efficient agricultural industry.
The areas in which most agricultural activities are found are around Palmer in the Matanuska Valley north of Anchorage and around Fairbanks in the Tanana-Chena Valley. The developed sections around Fairbanks are smaller than those of Matanuska. Almost all kinds of hardy vegetables and berries and some grain can be raised. Potatoes are a standard crop and grow well. Only a few crops such as tomatoes, corn and fruit trees will not mature, but tomatoes and cucumbers are grown in greenhouses and bush fruits produce large yields.
Some agricultural production also is under way near Anchorage and in scattered locations on the Kenai Peninsula. An estimated 15,000 to 18,000 acres are in crops in the state and land is being cleared at the rate of about 1,000 acres per year.
The Alaska Peninsula, Kodiak Island and the Aleutians afford opportunities for grazing and are potential sources of meat animals and wool although markets are far away. Only a few cattle and sheep are ranged these areas at present, he southeastern coast of Alaska is not uitable for agriculture, except for certain limited areas. Truck gardening and poultry farming, however, provide livings for a number of local residents. Several dairies supply local milk. Oats and peas take the place of corn for silage and are used for hay in feeding livestock. However, most of the feed for cattle is shipped from other states.
The growing season averages 140 days along the southeastern coast, 120 days on the
. awa'
AfeLti
'Wr-
suiti
KOTZEBUE — Parkas come in various colors, depending upon the fur. A standard feature is the fur trimmed hood — the fringe providing warmth for the face.
central Pacific coast, and 80 and 90 days in the central Tanana and upper Yukon Valleys. The unusual length of summer day compensates somewhat for the shortness of growing seasons in northern valleys.
Timber resources of Alaska present challenging opportunities for development. There are about forty-four million acres of commercial timberland including white spruce, Alaskan birch, cottonwood, black spruce, aspen and larch. The national forests of Tongass and Conguch are the principal source of commercial timber and are estimated to contain about 74,000,000,000 board feet of timber. Both forests are situated in coastal areas so that transportation is less of a problem than it will be for the development of other vast timber stands in the interior. There are several sawmills and one pulp mill in operation. Another pulp mill is being built by Japanese interests and at least one other is being considered by a United States concern.
Wildlife resources of Alaska are of vital importance as over half of the population depends almost entirely on fish and wildlife for existence. Alaska has few citizens who are not concerned directly with these resources. In recent years, the danger of depletion has been accentuated by the rapid increase in population, both civilian and military; the opening of new roads through game areas; and the ever-increasing use of airplanes to reach fishing and hunting areas.
While wildlife in Alaska is still worth millions of dollars in cash, food and clothing to all residents, one of its greatest future values lies in utilization as a recreational resource. With careful conservation, the tourist trade, an industry of increasing economic importance, will be attracted to Alaska and thousands of permanent Alaskans will look to hunting, fishing, camping and photography as a source of relaxation.
Big game animals include the bears, moose, caribou, Sitka black-tailed deer, Dali mountain sheep, Alaska mountain goat, muskoxen and two recently introduced species—the elk and the bison. In addition to these species the reindeer was introduced as a domestic animal and now runs wild mingling with the herds of caribou in some places.
Mink, blue, red and white fox, muskrat, beaver, marten, and lynx are Alaska’s most important fur animals. Next in importance are cross and silver fox, land otters, weasels (ermine), wolves, wolverines, coyotes, polar bears and black bears. Marmots, hares and squirrels are of lesser value. Land fur animals are the basis for the major part of the income earned by hundreds of Indians, Eskimos and Aleuts. Although many native people have developed other ways of making a living, trapping, hunting, and fishing are still their principal sources of food, clothing and eventual cash income.
Mink is the most valuable of the land fur animals with approximately 40,000 pelts of this semi-aquatic animal sold annually from trapping and farming combined. Wild mink is distributed widely south of the Brooks Range. Today most fur-farming ventures raise mink and foxes. Blue and silver fox and their various newly developed color variations are the most popular domestic animals now being raised.
Adequate transportation to and within Alaska is recognized as one of the prime factors underlying the development of the state and the realization of its economic and other potentials.
The cheapest means of traveling long dis^ tances in Alaska is by plane. Air transportation has become a necessity and Alaskans use planes as most people use buses. The state has about fifteen times as much passenger air travel, per capita, as the forty-eight states and more than one hundred times more air cargo transportation per capita. While air cargo service in other states is principally merchandise packages, much of the cargo transported to Alaska consists of the necessities of everyday life.
Today no point in Alaska is more than a day away from Seattle, Washington. For example, Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers taking off from Seattle arrive at Ketchikan in four hours; from Ketchikan to Juneau takes two hours. Anchorage is five hours flying time beyond Juneau via Pacific Northern Airlines. From Fairbanks to Nome takes 3 hours. In contrast it takes 2y2 days to reach Ketchikan from Seattle by steamer; three days to reach Juneau by boat; and six days to reach Fairbanks by rail.
Many Alaskan communities are not yet connected by surface transportation although there are approximately 4,000 miles of roadway in the territory. The primary system consists of a thousand-mile network of all weather paved routes connecting ice-free ports with interior Alaska’s principal cities and military installations and with the other forty-eight states via the Alaska highway through Canada.
The Alaska Highway begins at Dawson Creek in British Columbia and extends to Big Delta in Alaska where it joins the Richardson Highway and continues on to Fairbanks, — a total distance of 1,523 miles. Dawson Creek is reached from the United States by traveling 826 miles via Edmonton in Alberta, Canada. Conceived and planned for years, the highway to Alaska came into
MUD BEGAT — This is an Indian meeting house — with totem pole. The totem carries a record of a family history.