Page TO
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
VI. LEAD TO NEW UNIT: This might be
followed by a study of Hawaii:
1.	For direct contrasts.
2.	As a possible 50th state.
Are you well informed now and ready to
welcome Alaska as the 49th state?
DO YOU KNOW:
1.	From whom we purchased Alaska?
2.	What the purchase was called?
3.	How much it cost?
4.	Why it was called the uninhabitable dessert?
5.	Why it is called both the largest and smallest state?
6.	Of what state it is double the size?
7.	Which city is the capital?
8.	Which city is the largest?
9.	Which city is called, “air crossroads of the North”?
10.	Which inlet is one of the most dangerous stretches of water in the world?
11.	Where the U.S. Air Bases are located?
12.	On what date it was officially made a state?
13.	Where the University of Alaska is located?
14.	How many senators and representatives are sent to the United States Congress?
15.	The name of the highest peak?
16.	The name of the state flower?
17.	To what Circle does the admission of Alaska bring continental U.S.?
18.	What the northernmost point is?
19.	Why it is called “the land of the midnight sun”?
20.	Who are the natives?
21.	Who discovered Alaska?
22.	What the Klondike gold rush was?
23.	What islands the Japanese occupied during World War II?
24.	For what product the Kenai peninsula is noted?
25.	What “bush fliers” are?
26.	What is the most important food fish in Alaska?
27.	The names of some of the animals which make hunting a business?
28.	Why they speak of “homesteaders” in Alaska?
29.	Which minerals are found in abundance?
30.	Where the Panhandle is located?
31.	The history of the Alaskan flag?
II. DISCUSS:
1.	Why the plane has been so vital to the development of Alaska.
2.	The future of Alaska.
3.	The modernization of Alaska.
4.	The importance of Alaska in military defense.
5.	The part the Eskimo has played in the development of Alaska.
6.	The potential of agriculture in Alaska.
III.	ON A MAP OF ALASKA LOCATE:
Arctic Circle
Little and Big Diomede
Juneau
Ketchikan
Yukon River
Kenai Peninsula
Mt. McKinley
Aleutian Islands
Anchorage
Sitka
Point Barrow Gulf of Alaska Bering Strait Kodiak Island Fairbanks Nome
Pacific Ocean
IV.	WHAT DO THESE NAMES HAVE TO DO WITH THE HISTORY OF ALASKA?
Vitus Bering	James Cook
William S. Seward Michael A. Stepovich Alexander Baranof William A. Eagan Frank Heintzlemann
V. MATCH Juneau Anchorage Fairbanks Ketchikan Sitka
Nome
largest city city nearest to Asia land of the totem poles capital
canned salmon capital of the world
University of Alaska
KNOWING the meaning of some of these words will help you to get more from the articles when you read them.
aborigines
accentuated
adjuncts
assumption
awesome
baleen
bulwark
compensates
concession
cosmopolitan
depletion
dingy
diversified
dredgers
emblazoned
ethnologists
gadgets
geologists
harpoon
indispensable
inflexion
jargon
jest
localisms
lode
mammals
noncontiguous
optimistic
penetrated
potent
potential
premium
proclamation
prospector
original inhabitants of a
country
emphasized
auxiliaries, connections taking for granted, assuming
weird, terror whalebone defensive wall makes up for, pays favor
common to all the world reduction, quantity lessened dull, shabby changed, many forms machines used to clear out mud, silt, etc. brilliantly colored, displayed
students of the science of races
things, the names of which cannot be recalled students of the structure of the earth
weapon on long cord for
striking whales
necessary
change words
mixture of languages
laughter
acts or speech peculiar to certain places valuable mineral species of animals including man
not touching or joining looks on the bright side forced, entered, reached powerful, influential possibility in great demand public announcement one who explores for minerals
proximity	being near or next
reminiscent	remembering, recalling the past
silage	preserved fodder
sparsely	thinly
supersonic	faster than sound
surveyor	inspector of land
swivels	pivots, rotates
tertiary	rocks or strata of that age or period
toboggan	type of sled used for coasting
tribulations	distress, sufferings
uninhabitable	not livable
viscera	soft parts of mollusks, stomachs
visors	pieces on caps which shield the eyes
wily	sly, cunning
Bibliography, Alaska
(NOTE: Since a unit on Alaska appeared in the Pan American World Airways Teacher in June 1952 we have tried to limit our bibliography for the most part to books of recent publication and to magazine articles which will bring us up to date with the acceptance of Alaska as the 49th state.)
Caldwell — Introducing Alaska — Putnam Burford — North to Danger — Day Crisler — Arctic Wild — Harper Denison — Alaska Today — Caxton Driscoll—War Discovers Alaska —Lippincott Machetanz — Where Else But Alaska — Scribner
Marshall — Arctic Wilderness — Univera^j of California	H
Mikkelsen — Mirage of the Arctic — Hart-Davis
Morgan — God’s Loaded Dice: Alaska — Caxton
Richards — Arctic Mood — Caxton Stefansson — Here is Alaska — Scribner Williams — Alaskan Adventure — Stackpole Willoughby—Alaska Holiday—Little Brown Barbeau — Alaska Beckons — McMillan Chevigny — Lord of Alaska — Viking Greenwood — Rolling North — Crowell Whishaw—As Far as You’ll Take Me—Dodd Herron — Alaska, Land of Tomorrow — McGraw Hill
Martin — Home on the Bear’s Domain — McMillan
Andrews — Story of Alaska — Caxton Shore — Born on Snowshoes — Houghton Mifflin
McKeown — Alaska Silver — MacMillan Berton — I Married the Klondike — Little Brown
O’Neill — Picture Story of Alaska — McKay McCracken—The Story of Alaska—Lippincott Busoni — Skookum — Putnam Lathrop — Northern Trail Adventure — Random
Machetanz — Rick of the High Ridge — Scribner
Pinkerton — Hidden Harbor — Harcourt Helmericks —Oolak’s Brother—Little Bro Helmericks — Arctic Hunter — Little Br Smith-Sorenson — Neighbors Around World — Winston
Packerton-Overton-Wood — Geography Around the World — MacMillan Quinn — Picture Map Geography of Canada and Alaska — Lippincott