BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
ALASKA
Page 3
ALASKA
In June, 1952, the Pan American World Airways Teacher printed an article on the Industry and Trade of the Territory of Alaska. This article is about the State of Alaska. It is true that the designation of Alaska as our Forty-ninth State did not make its rich resources more valuable, its strategic location more potent, or its natural beauty more awesome. It is very true, however, that the fact that rather than ‘belonging to us’ it is now ‘part of us’ has an effect on the kind of pride with which we regard what is now the largest state in our Union.
The State of Alaska, occupying the largest peninsula of the North American Continent, is approximately 586,400 square miles in area. This makes it more than twice as big as Texas or about one-fifth as large as our forty-eight other states combined. Surrounded on three sides by water, it is connected with Canada along a six hundred mile frontier running between the Arctic and Pacific Oceans.
Its shape is somewhat like that of a square with two long fingers of land pointing to the southwest and southeast. The Aleutian Islands make up the strip that extends 1,200 miles southwest into the Pacific (farther than from New York City to New Orleans). The Panhandle, as the southeastern strip is called, is about six hundred miles in length. It is not really part of the Alaskan peninsula |but is geographically the coastal section of "northern British Columbia.
Alaska’s proximity to the North Pole is about that of Scotland, Norway, Finland and Sweden. Its southeastern area has the same average temperature as that of Baltimore and Philadelphia. Its western area is similar climati<5ally to New England, and its interior is comparable to Montana and the Dakotas.
be obtained from their official flag and flower. The design of the flag, which now becomes the state emblem, was selected from many submitted in a contest held in public, private and native schools. It was actually designed by Benny Benson, aged 13, a student in the seventh grade, and consists of eight gold stars in a field of blue. The blue typifies the evening sky, the sea and mountain lakes, and wild flowers that grow in Alaskan soil; and the gold signifies the wealth that lies hidden in Alaska’s hills and streams. Seven of the stars simulate the Dipper, part of the most conspicuous constellation in the northern sky. The Pointers point toward the eighth star in the flag, the North Star, a constant guide for the mariner, explorer, hunter, trapper, prospector, woodsman and surveyor. The official flower is the Forget-Me-Not which strongly hints at the trials and tribulations many Alaskans have experienced along their road to statehood.
In a way Alaska is a link between the United States and Russia. We have met there in the past and practically meet there now. To the west where the Bering Sea meets the Arctic Ocean less than three miles of water separate Russian and United States territory. The written history of Alaska really begins in Russia during the reign of Peter the Great who commissioned Vitus Bering, a Danish sea captain in his service, to explore the northwest coast of the American Continent. In 1728, Bering sailed far enough north, through the Strait now bearing his name, to establish the fact that this
land was part of North America proper. In 1741, at the age of sixty, Bering returned and made a landing off south-central Alaska. His lieutenant, in command of another ship, sailed along the southeastern coast and lost a landing party to hostile natives near Sitka.
Russia based her claim of ownership of northwestern North America upon these voyages and soon after Bering’s second expedition, Russian fur traders began to advance along the Aleutians. The first settlement was made at Three Saints on Kodiak Island in 1784. In 1799, the Russian-Ameri-can Company, a Russian trading corporation, assumed complete control over everything in Russian America under a twenty-year concession which was renewed periodically. In 1806, Alexander Baranof, manager of the Company for about twenty years, moved the capital from Kodiak to Sitka and for years Sitka was the most cosmopolitan town west of the Mississippi and north of Mexico City.
The progress of the Russians can be traced today by the remaining Russian Orthodox churches, wooden-framed and turnip-topped, built by the faithful Aleuts and Indians under the missionary priests. These monuments to Russian expansion are found at Unalaska, eastward along the Aleutians, in the Kodiak-Afognak group and at Sitka. In 1855, during the Crimean War when it was feared that the British might seize the country, Russia tried to sell her land in North America to the United States. The transaction was not completed, however, until a number of years later when Secretary of State William H. Seward finally succeeded in convincing the United States Congress to purchase the area. Formal transfer occurred at Sitka on October 18, 1877.
Specifically, the southeastern area has mild winters and cool summers with heavy rainfall. The south central area has moderate winters, and warm summers with heavy rainfall on the coast and light rain and snow inland. Along the Kenai Peninsula and the Aleutian Islands the winters are stormy but not exceptionally cold, and the summers are cool with considerable rain and fog.
The coastal region is separated from the interior by a series of high mountain ranges. Three of them, the Saint Elias, the Aleutian and the Alaskan Ranges are actually continuations of mountains of the rest of the United States and Canada. The Alaskan Range is the highest in North America reaching a height of 20,300 feet above sea level at Mount McKinley. Interior Alaska has very light rainfall and great extremes in winter and summer temperatures.
Because of Alaska’s high northern latitude, the length of day varies much more between Summer and winter. At the Arctic Circle on Khe longest day of the year, the sun dips to the horizon at midnight then rises. Farther south the sun goes below the horizon, while above the Arctic Circle the sun circles the sky never setting.
Some clues to Alaskan development can
FAIRBANKS Alaska has many features that distinguish it from the other forty-eight states, but Main Street in Fairbanks looks just about like Main Street anywhere in the U.S.