Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
freezing blizzards, in areas without wood or stone, he invented the snow house. How did he heat it? Lacking other fuel, he learne to burn, in lamps of pottery or stone, o derived from the fat of sea mammals. The same flame provided him with light and with heat for cooking.
To hunt on the sea ice in the bitter winter, he had to protect his body from the freezing temperature. So he made fully tailored fur-lined garments of skins, complete with mittens and hoods. To take the wily sea mammals on which his living depended, the Eskimo devised weapons such as the harpoon and the compound recurved and sinewback bow. He invented many gadgets to improve his basic tools — swivels and buckles for his dog harness and bone and ivory shoes for his sleds. He adapted the products of nature to suit his needs — shoulder blades of walrus for snow shovels, walrus tusks for ice picks. Sinew and baleen (whalebone) were used in place of fiber for cordage. From pieces of slate he made knives and harpoon points.
Thus, the Eskimo was resourceful. Many of these devices were adopted in modified form by the Indian tribes adjoining Eskimo territory and some of them spread as far away as the southern Plains.
Eskimo life has changed considerably. It began to change in the middle of the 19th century when the agents of great European trading companies penetrated to the farthest reaches of the northern woodlands, establishing posts in search of furs. The Eskimo and Indian neighbors were fine trappers. Traders furnished them with guns and steel traps aj well as with other modern adjuncts of livin; The natives quickly adopted the textile clothing and metal tools and cooking utensils of the white man. Missionaries followed the traders and did to the natives’ beliefs and ideas what the trader had done to his material culture.
The Eskimo has adopted the gun. Skin clothing, especially in summer, has been replaced by European-style garments of cloth. With his native mechanical, genius, the Eskimo has adopted the gasoline motor to propel his boats, and the phonograph has become as important to the igloo as was formerly the blubber lamp. Records have become one of the important stocks in trade of the traders, and the Eskimo asks for recordings of his favorite crooners with as much selectivity as the teen-age American boy or girl. The Eskimo still hunts, but with modern rifles; he still paddles with his old skill on rivers and lakes, but in factory-made canoes. Eskimo people are catching up with modern advantages and living — fast, indeed.
The native Alaskans may be divided roughly into four groups, inhabiting four geographic areas: the Indians of southeastern Alaska; the Indians of the interior or Athapascans; the Aleuts, and the Eskimos. It is said that the language is almost identical from Greenland to Barrow. An Eskimo from Greenland has no trouble in speaking with a Barrow Eskimo. The active daily vocabuJ lary runs about 10,000 words, most of whiclr are either nouns or verbs. The Eskimos form the adjective and adverb meanings by inflection. The inflection is so complicated that, according to some authorities on this field, a single noun can be written in more
ALASKA — Forty-Ninth State
by Enrique Portes
Alaska’s forty-odd year project for statehood ended successfully in July 1958, but the ceremonies and the waving of a flag with a new star in it came on January 3, 1959.
It was a good day for Alaska as the President issued his proclamation, and it was a fine day for our country. Ninety-two years ago, when Secretary of State Seward signed the treaty with Russia for the purchase of what was then called Russian America, many of his countrymen believed that he was paying good American gold ($7,200,000 worth of it) for a vast “uninhabitable desert.” Many believed Alaska was a wilderness “whose polar game and fish constitute its only possible value.”
Less than a century has passed; gold and other valuable minerals have demonstrably added to Alaska’s wealth; the great fisheries off its coasts are no subject for jest. Cities flourish in the “uninhabitable desert”; its population of some 215,000 includes 65,000 eligible voters. And the President of the United States has signed the official proclamation certifying that “admission of the State of Alaska into the Union on an equal footing with the other states of the Union is now accomplished.”
It is perhaps not surprising that many Americans could not foresee Alaska as the forty-ninth state, or any state, in 1867. Nebraska had just been admitted as the thirty-seventh in that year, and the last Indian wars were mounting to the pitch of fury that was to wipe out Custer’s command nearly ten years later. New York was debating whether cattle were still to be driven down its streets; the frontier seemed close and wild, while Alaska seemed very far away and much
wilder. But now our new star in the North is firmly fixed in the flag.
Alaska is not so much in the present as in the future. Alaska may have only 5,000 miles of roads, not all of them perfect, but she has well-established communications by air, has resources, including petroleum, that have hardly been tapped, and has a population, including Indians and Eskimos, as well as adventurers from the other forty-eight states.
The new state is at once the largest and smallest in the nation. With 586,400 square miles of land and water; it is more than double the size of Texas (267,339 square miles). But Alaska’s population of 208,000 is less than that of Nevada (256,000).
Alaska’s Eskimos
Somehow, when we think of Alaska, the Eskimo comes almost always to our minds. This group of aborigines is the most remarkable in the northern regions. The Eskimos are of Asian origin, and many ethnologists prefer not to refer to them as “Indians,” but as a group apart. The amazing thing is how they overcame great obstacles in order to make their living in those isolated regions.
In order to travel the Eskimo invented the toboggan and the sled to carry his loads over the deep snow. Later he learned to make the sled more efficient by breeding large dogs to draw it. For traveling on slippery ice he used ice creepers. To prevent snow blindness, visors were used, and goggles were carved from ivory and wood, with narrow slits to cut down the pitiless reflected light of the sun on the limitless snowfields. To shelter himself in a region of extreme cold and
JUNEAU — Ice and snow in Alaska? Of course, and they may be seen in the background of this picture. But the bathing scene also is typical for summer time in the Panhandle.