XV, No. 3
DOUGLAS DC-8 JET
The first Douglas DC-8 recently posed for its picture (see cut) when it was rolled out of the hangar for the first time.
Twenty-one jet airliners of the DC-8 type are scheduled to join the Boeing 707’s in the Clipper fleet. The order for Boeings total 23 units, making a total of 44 Jet Clippers in service and on order.
Dimensions of the DC-8 substantially exceed those of its immediate piston-powered predecessor, the DC-7C. Its wing span is 139 feet, 9 inches and overall length 150 feet, 6 inches, compared with a span of 127 feet, six inches and length of 112 feet three inches on the DC-7C. Wing sweepback on the DC-8 A 30 degrees. Height of the tail is 42 feet, \ur inches.
Maximum operating range, with full pay-load, is 4,500 miles.
The DC-8 will operate most efficiently at high altitudes “over the weather,” where comfort is greatest. A cabin pressurization system will create sea level atmosphere at flight altitudes up to 23,000 feet. At 34,000 feet, the cabin pressure will be equivalent to 5,000 feet; and at 40,000 feet passengers will enjoy the conditions of 6,700 feet altitude. On average flights, the DC-8 will fly between 35,000 and 40,000 feet.
Adding to the comfort of the passengers is an air conditioning system which controls temperature and humidity and completely changes the supply of fresh air in the cabin every three minutes.
Weather radar installation is a standard feature of the DC-8. The 30-inch antenna will permit 180 degrees horizontal full-beam scan to give early warning of storms, turbulence or other navigational obstacles which may be encountered.
A special chair has been scientifically designed for cushioned passenger comfort. Reading lights, call buttons, ash trays, dining or game tables, cold air outlets and emergency oxygen are built into the seats. This arrangement makes each passenger self-sufficient with respect to these various facilities, also permits greater flexibility in seat Spacing, to set up for differing configurations for various classes of service.
Two passenger doors will make it possible to have separate entrances for different classes.
('Continued on page T-2)



Published by Pan American World
CLIPPER BEING READIED FOR OCEAN AIR SERVICE
MIAMI - NEW YORK VIA JET CUPPER, ON NATIONAL
by George Gardner
In between round trips to London, Paris and Rome, the Jet Clippers this winter have been flying on the New York-Miami route, operated by National Airlines under an arrangement with Pan American.
Your editor, visiting Miami in late December, returned to New York via National on a Boeing 707 Jet Clipper, on New Year’s Eve, thus is in a position to pass on some impressions of travel by jet aircraft in domestic air line operation.
Even on New Year’s Eve, when it would seem that people mostly would want to stay put, it wasn’t easy to book space on National’s Jet Star schedule. On the other hand, it turned out to be possible — in other words, it’s always worth while to try.
National Airlines, at the beginning of the year, was flying two round trips daily with
Boeing 707’s, with the possibility that another daily schedule might be added later. Scheduled flight times is 2 hours and 15 minutes in either direction. Since it is a north and south flight, there is no basic schedule difference, as there is on transcontinental and over ocean flights, where the time table allots more time to the westbound operation, against prevailing winds.
However, on December 31, the elapsed time was 2 hours and 30 minutes, a quarter of an hour more than called for by the time table. This was because part of the flight was accomplished with a stiff quartering wind, some of it against a head wind, and none whatever with a favoring wind to push us along.
The flight on December 31 also furnished (■Continued on page T-2)
March 1959
DOUGLAS DC-8 — This photo was taken on the day the first DC-8 was rolled out of the hangar. In appearance the Boeing 707 and the Douglas DC-8 are similar; some differences that will help you to distinguish between them are the greater number of windows on the 707, the probe (for a radio antenna) which extends forward from the vertical stabilizer of the 707, and not on the DC-8 (which has radio antennas elsewhere) and the srtuctures supporting the engines which extend to the front of the engine on the 707, but stop short just aft of the cowling on the DC-8.