BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
COLOMBIA
Page 3
Of Colombia’s 14 cities with population of more than 30,000, only three are in the lowlands — the Caribbean coast of Barran-quilla (about 200,000 inhabitants), Cartagena (nearly 120,000), and Santa Marta (about 38,000).
To go the eight hundred miles from the sea up the Magdalena River to Bogotá takes a week under the best possible conditions. By air the journey takes about two hours.
Difficulties of communications have influenced most of Colombia’s history. Originally Ecuador and Venezuela were parts of the Gran Colombia which Bolivar briefly ruled after the Wars of Independence. But the country was too vast, and Ecuador and Venezuela soon split off to become separate nations.
point where it leaves the valley to climb over the Andes. Occasionally one may see the earth through the clouds till the city appears suddenly as a mass of red-tiled roofs with the white tops of business buildings interspersed amongst them.
Bogotá was founded in 1538 by Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada, a mam of letters and one of the most daring and glamorous figures of the conquest. He managed to conquer some of the Chitcha Indians, and near the protecting slopes of Monserrate and Guadalupe he ordered the construction of a small settlement.
A year later two other famous conquerors arrived on the high plateau: Belalcázar from Peru and Federmann, a German, from Venezuela. The city was founded once again with more pomp. Shortly afterward Belalcázar and Quesada returned to Spain to find means of conquering new realms, and searching for El Dorado. Federmann died almost forgotten in Madrid in 1542.
The settlement grew; Churches and monasteries were built. By 1571 Bogotá was a cultural center of the New World. Many families of Spain were attracted to it because of its excellent climate and the city’s peaceful advancement. At the end of the 18th century the first newspaper was published and the first theater constructed.
To enjoy fully the daily drama that is life at Bogotá, you must become one of the 600,000 inhabitants, walk through the streets, ride the trolleys, buses and taxis, and take the cable railway up to Monserrate.
Bogotá has more than its share of quaint street names, preserved on markers affixed to buildings in the downtown section. Although many street names, particularly those commemorating historical events and personalities, remain in use, it is easy for the traveler to find his way around the city because of the rather special system of num-
*
Somewhat north from the Colombian-uadorean border, the Andes branch out to three separate cordilleras which are arallel for a while then spread out fanwise. These are known as the Cordillera Occidental, Cordillera Central, and Cordillera Oriental. The most important feature of the latter is comprised of the high savannas which lie at an elevation of 8000-9000 feet. On these
Photo from Avianca
BOGOTA — A funicular railway ascends Monserrate and at the top visitors see a splendid view of Colombia's capital and the valley in which it lies.
COLOMBIA
by Enrique Portes
Columbus, for whom the Republic of Colombia is named, never reached its coast. Credit must go to Alonso de Ojeda who was the first European to voyage that far. Ojeda’s expedition made a landing at Cartagena Bay, read to the Indians in Spanish a proclamation calling upon them to embrace Christianity and submit to the King of Spain. The Indians responded by attacking.
The first permanent settlement in what is now Colombia was Santa Marta, now the center of the country’s banana industry. In 1536, spurred by rumors of a kingdom in the interior of Colombia whose riches rivaled those of Peru, Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada led an expedition for the discovery of the source of the Magdalena River. After encountering great difficulties, Quesada made the ascent of the eastern cordillera, the large range of the Andes, and on August 5, 1538, founded the town of Santa Fe de Bacatá, later to be called Bogotá, which is today the capital of Colombia.
With an area of about 444,270 square miles, Colombia is almost double the size of Texas; its population is close to 10,000,000. In population it ranks third in South America, being exceeded only by Brazil and Argentina. It is the only nation on the South American con-
Itinent with coasts on the Atlantic (1100 miles) ^jid on the Pacific (1000 miles).
■Although the Equator goes through the routhern part of the country, Colombia is not all tropical, for the Andes run the whole length of the nation, splitting into three great ranges, with wide valleys and high plateaus in between. In Colombia, four-fifths of the people live in truly mountain country — on high intermontane plains or savannas, large and small, and in mountain valleys separated from each other by ranges and spurs that make communication among them very difficult.
savannas the Spanish conquerors found the highly civilized Chitcha Indians, and on them today live nearly a third of Colombia’s people. The largest and most densely populated is the Sabana de Bogotá, on whose eastern edge lies the nation’s capital.
There are many lakes in the eastern cordillera, especially north of Bogotá, among -them Lake Guatavita, which, according to a legend, is the one in which El Dorado (The Gilded Man) bathed annually in a ceremony of atonement.
The great Rio Magdalena, with its wide plain and its numerous tributaries, principally the Río Cauca, traversing practically the whole length of the country, might be expected to provide easy access from the Caribbean coast to the three cordilleras, but none of them is navigable throughout. Impassable rapids break the Magdalena into two navigable sections, the Cauca into several. Air service has not only saved Colombian hours and days, but really helped Colombians skip centuries in their progress from mule-back to wings, wings that fly the Andes.
Bogotá
Bogotá, with some 600,000 inhabitants and the country’s largest city, is often called the Athens of America because of its intellectual atmosphere.
It lies on a level savanna surrounded by steep mountains that enclose it like an oval wall. At an altitude of 8700 feet, Bogotá is accessible by air or by various combinations of river steamer, railroad, and car.
If your plane follows the Magdalena River — Colombia’s Mississippi — it will reach a