WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 4	STUDY UNIT
Photo from Avianca
BOGOTA — The bull ring, a center of interest for Colombians corresponding to the baseball park in a city in the U.S.
bers for streets and buildings, which applies throughout.
In centuries past, streets changed names almost every block. The same street might be “Royal Street” for several blocks, then become the “Street of the Republic,” the “Street of the Butcher,” etc. This system of multiple street names became increasingly confusing in the course of the city’s four hundred years, and recently gave way to a beautifully logical and simple plan. Street numbers are plainly marked and house numbers likewise. Each house number represents the distance in meters from the corner. For instance, a house located at 40-84 Carrera 18 is 84 meters north of Calle 40.
The term Avenida is applied to a main thoroughfare, such as Jimenez de Quesada, Caracas, or Chile. The old, narrow streets resound with the clatter of street cars, the honking of automobile horns, and the clamor of church bells. Unmindful of the din, citizens gather on street corners to discuss the affairs of the day. The crowd is mixed: men in business suits, peons in rua-nas or Colombian ponchos, women clad in the latest styles of Fifth Avenue or wearing shawl-like mantas, priests in long black gowns, swarms of boys with shoeshine boxes.
If you stay long in the capital you’ll learn to do what most Bogotanos do: drink the black coffee they call tinto while discussing some interesting topic of the moment with your friends. You will learn expressions like “adiosito,” “permisito,” “mejorcito” and master the manner of saying so by wagging the first finger of the right hand sidewise.
At the market you’ll see many Colombians from the country wearing ruanas. A ruana is to the Colombian what the poncho is to the Mexican — a blanket with a slit in the middle for the head. It has been called the “four-cornered overcoat” and is especially useful for riding to and from the country. In the early morning a cool breeze blows from
the Andean mountains caressing a cherry tree growing in the park, in bloom all year, which never knows what season it is.
Plaza Bolivar is the heart of the city. Around it is the old section containing most of the important colonial relics. These include the former presidential mansion, the palace of San Carlos, in which Bolivar lived and which now houses the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the churches of Santa Inés, San Ignacio, San Agustín and San Francisco; the observatory; the Capitol; the Municipal Palace, etc. But most of the city has been built in the last century, much of it in the last decade, and modern structures often stand next to ancient buildings.
There are fine statues in Bogotá. Besides the statues of Bolivar and Santander — who ruled Colombia after Bolivar — monuments have been erected to scientists, discoverers, philanthropists, and patriots: to Columbus and the Spanish queen Isabel la Católica; to Antonio Nariño, the precursor of independence; to Francisco José de Caldas, scientist and patriot; to Rufino José Cuervo, eminent Colombian philologist and humanist; to Marshal Antonio José de Sucre, victor of the battle of Ayacucho; and to Dr. Manuel Murillo Toro, one of the most progressive presidents of the republic.
University City, on the outskirts of Bogotá, is a monumental work of modern architecture. Many colleges of the National University are now housed in this center. There are many buildings finished — and projected — with playing fields, stadium, swimming pools and other facilities.
Bogotá’s religious character is expressed in its threescore churches, monasteries, convents, shrines, and chapels. Some of these are venerable structures, outstanding examples of the mastery of Spanish colonial architects, artists, sculptors, and woodcarvers. They are all treasure houses of Colombian art.
The cathedral is one of the most beautiful
di-
I
in America, rising on one side of Plaza Bolivar. The National Museum is most intere: ing. It contains among many other reli Quesacla’s coat of arms, a banner that tí longed to Francisco Pizarro, and a Peruvian regal robe of the Inca Atahualpa, the last of the Indian emperors.
Bogotá is a city of great culture, a center of dignified and intellectual achievement justly called the Athens of America.
Around Bogotá
The suburbs of Bogotá reflect the quality of its growth from the model workers’ communities to the varied architectural styles of the residential sections. The largest and most notable of the latter are Teusaquillo and Chapinero.
Monserrate, the peak that rises steeply east of the old part of the city, may be ascended by funicular railroad in some 15 minutes. On the summit is a platform from which a splendid panorama of the city is obtained. There are picnic grounds behind the chapel of Monserrate.
Another interesting point near Bogotá is the Salto de Tequendama. It is a waterfall considered among America’s most beautiful. Here the Rio Bogotá reaches a ledge projecting over a high precipice. Stopped for a moment by a rim of rocks which extends across the full width of the ledge, the water lashes itself into a fury and then plunges into the abyss, 440 feet deep. A rock that has been worn as round as a cannon ball can be seen on a ledge in the swirling water. *
The waterfall is the subject of many Indi» legends. One of these, a primitive version <■ the Flood, tells that a beautiful but vicious woman named Huitaca who came among the Chitchas corrupted them so widely that the god of the savanna sent rain that covered all the region. The people fled before the deluge. Taking refuge on the high mountains, they called upon the kindly god Bochica. Bochica appeared on a rainbow with a golden scepter in his hand, and as he waved his scepter the rocks opened to let the water escape. The water has been running for centuries and the falls show no sign of going dry even today.
The Laguna de Guatavita, some 35 miles from Bogotá, is a gemlike body of water rimmed by mountains. Held sacred by the Chitcha Indians, it figured in a version of the legend of El Dorado. El Dorado was not a region but a man. According to legend, a festival was held each year in honor of the goddess of Guatavita; during the ceremonies El Dorado appeared and plunged into the lake.
What probably happened was that one of the Chitcha chieftains powdered his body with gold dust and dived into the lake, while hundreds of onlookers tossed after him ornaments and sacred images of gold, silver, platinum, and emeralds as offerings to their goddess. That is the legend the Spaniards heard.
What was the legend itself? The caciqi\ or chief of Guatavita had a wife so beautif that even the sun envied her. When she? betrayed her husband, the cacique killed her lover and imprisoned the wife. She could hear the minstrels singing the fate of her lover and reciting in detail her shame and misery. One day she escaped, went to the lake