WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 2	STUDY UNIT
SAN FRANCISCO
LOS ANGELES
NEW ORLEANS
.RACAS
BOGOTA
NEW YORK
MEXICO	AJ
GUATEMALA CITY^^^ PANAMA
JW -us»
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO COLOMBIA
by George Gardner
Located on the northwest bulge of the continent of South America, Colombia is readily accessible from all parts of the United States.
The gateway city in Colombia for the Clippers is Barranquilla, the seaport, near the mouth of the Magdalena River, and the major routes by Clipper from the United States are:
New York — Caracas — Barranquilla.
Miami — Barranquilla.
New Orleans — Panama City — Barranquilla.
San Francisco and Los Angeles — Guatemala — Panama City — Barranquilla
For travel to the capital, Bogotá, there is a service via the Colombian air line, Avianca from New York City to Barranquilla and Bogotá. Avianca also provides connections from Caracas and from Panama, and operates service within Colombia to Cali, Cartagena, Medellin and other cities.
Service to Cali from Panama City, and from Quito, Ecuador, is provided by Panagra — the west coast of South American affiliate of Pan American World Airways.
Flight time from New York is about eleven hours; from Miami six hours; from New Orleans, nine hours and from Los Angeles (including time for several stops en route), 16 hours.
For a trip which has its purpose learning about the country and its people, it is well to plan as far in advance as possible, a practice which is always advisable for foreign travel.
Not that there are any great difficulties in-
volved in traveling to Colombia. It is a simple matter to book passage at the air line ticket office, or through a travel agent, and we’ll find that the fare is $190.80 first class or $140.80 tourist, for the one way passage to Barranquilla. To Bogotá it is $228.80 first class, $178.80 tourist. These are the fares from New York City, different amounts would be charged from other gateway cities in the United States mentioned above.
A reservation usually can be made on the same day it is requested.
When it comes to international clearance requirements, these are simple for Colombia, too. To visit Colombia as a tourist, it is not necessary to have a passport. A tourist card is all that is required — it may be obtained in the United States from any Colombian consulate. The Colombian tourist card is valid for 90 days, and it may be used for more than one entry, in case you leave Colombia and then return before it has expired.
On the health side, it is necessary to have an up-to-date smallpox vaccination certificate. This is a standard foreign travel requirement — in addition to being required by many other countries, it is required for re-entry into the United States. In the case of Colombia, it is necessary also to have a certificate of immunization against yellow fever and a general health certificate.
Certificates of vaccination and immunization now generally are entered on a combination form, which has spaces for the two mentioned above, and for others that will be required in the event you visit certain other countries. Once you have obtained the form, you will keep it for future use — there are
extra spaces so that if your small pox vacci^ nation, for example, expires, the record A a renewal vaccination may be entered on tH same form. The general health certificate a letter from your doctor, certifying that you are in good health and free from communicable diseases.
You must think of your wardrobe, and if you plan to visit both Barranquilla on the coast, and possibly other coastal cities, and then go to Bogotá in the interior and at a much higher altitude, you will need a combination wardrobe.
Along the coast, the climate is tropical, and you will want summer sports clothes.
For Bogotá, woolen clothes will be comfortable, and it will be useful to have a sweater and a top coat, and, for a girl or woman, perhaps a fur jacket. These are for use mainly in the evening — the temperature is much the same in Bogotá the year round, ranging from a low of about 45 degrees in January to 50 degrees in May, and a high temperature of 68 to 70 degrees the year round.
A raincoat is a necessity either along the coast or in Bogotá — residents keep them handy for use whenever needed. Colombian natives favor a garment called the ruana, actually a blanket with a slit for the head — the ends hang down fore and aft, to provide warmth, when wanted, and protection from the rain.
Along with the practical preparations suggested above, there is another prelimin which is very necessary. Always, for tra abroad, it is important to prepare by lea ing as much as possible about the country to be visited.
9
The language of Colombia is Spanish, and Spanish-speaking people admire the Spanish spoken in Colombia. The visitor will greatly increase the pleasure and satisfaction of his stay there if he can speak Spanish. But it definitely is not necessary to postpone visiting Colombia until a knowledge of the language can be acquired, because so many Colombians speak excellent English. And visitors with a rudimentary knowledge of Spanish will find that Colombians are delighted to afford opportunities for practice.
So the suggestion on the language is this: If you have some knowledge of Spanish, brush up beforehand and look forward to learning more in Colombia. If you do not know Spanish at all, go ahead and be confident you can get along with English.
But when it comes to the history of the country, its customs, its industry and trade, and its form of government, you will be doing yourself a favor to learn as much about them as possible before you go, in order to understand better after you get there. This can be accomplished by reading, by seeing films, by talking to persons who have lived in Colombia, or visited there.
The material presented in the follow pages is just such introductory material, it contains both information and data, references for further reading and visual materials.
W
Our Clipper Trip to Colombia here is a study unit — perhaps for some of us later it may be an actual experience.