Page T-2
PAN AMERICAIV
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1958, Pan American World Airways,Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(Continued from page T-l)
Both issues were resolved, after debate and vote, and satisfactorily. But the process was time consuming, and the Future Tour Leaders, upon further consideration came to an important conclusion: Such routine matters as collecting passports and seating arrangements would simply be decided upon by the Future Tour Leader in charge, and instructions issued to all, who would then comply.
Then the Immigration Committee was given a workout when Dr. Olsen announced: “There is one Dominican Republic tourist card still to be obtained, because one of the members registered late and there was not time to get this document in Washington. I think it is Mrs. Holdeman. Now this card may be obtained from Pan American. So the Committee on Health, Customs and Immigration should obtain the card, and pay for it, and I will make reimbursement from the Tour funds.”
Without further ado, a committee member proceeded to the Pan American ticket counter, had a Dominican tourist card issued for Mrs. Holdeman, and paid the fee of $2.14.
What the committee member failed to take into account was that Dr. Olsen had said “I think it is Mrs. Holdeman.” No inquiry was made, and the dismal result was that the committee wound up with two cards for Mrs. Holdeman, and none for the tour member who actually needed it. Checking the situation after the event, the committee discovered what it had done, acquired the correct tourist card, and endeavored to collect a refund for the duplicate, but found this could not be done.
Dr. Olsen at first pretended that lie was not authorized to reimburse for the fee paid out in error; that the committee was holding the bag. But after twenty-four hours, he relented and reimbursed for both fees. *****
One other sneak attack by the group’s most pesty tour member will serve to illustrate how lessons were learned through pain and travail. At the first class session in San Juan, Tour Member Olsen, pest of pests, told the “Tour Director” that he had lost a package, what should he do? It was a very important
package, wrapped in brown paper and tied with a white string. This “loss” was a deliberate plant, and the important package was a dummy.
The Future Tour Leader whose current assignment made her the one to listen to this agonized appeal suspected treachery, but she had no choice. She had to proceed as if it were serious. And twenty-four hours later, she triumphantly returned the package, having recovered it from the hotel housekeeper.
But this was by no means the end of the lesson, and be it said, to the credit of the Future Tour Leader, that she did come up with the right answer. Reflecting upon her plight, she became convinced that something was wrong, and checked it out by re-reading her contract with the N. E. A. Division of Travel Service. Therein, as clearly as words can state it, is the stipulation that tour baggage, labeled and tagged to identify it as belonging to the NEA Tour for Tour Leaders is a responsibility of the Tour Director after delivery to a hotel employee working under his instruction for transfer to a taxi or other conveyance, and thereafter, until returned to the tour member after the arrival at the next hotel. Beyond that, the tour member’s personal belongings are his responsibility. Bags and parcels not checked, and carried by hand, are the tour member’s to watch and safeguard. Belongings on his person or in his room are his to watch.
Confronted with this finding, and told it should have been his own responsibility, Dr. Olsen conceded that this was true, and expressed pleasure that the Future Tour Leader had come up with the correct answer — somewhat belatedly and after having suffered.
Yes, the Tour Director can and should suggest where to inquire, definitely should offer the use of a crying towel (in a figurative sense, to be sure) but should not assume a responsibility that clearly remains with the tour member.
*****
The process of learning was used exclusively in clearing through Public Health, Immigration and Customs, by the committees assigned. These assignments were rotated, and changed upon each arrival in another country, and the itinerary had been set up in such a way that the pattern would become increasingly complex.
Out of Miami and upon arrival at Puerto Rico, the committee on Health, Immigration and Customs had the simplest assignment possible. Puerto Rico being a part of the United States, the committee had no duties to discharge the night of arrival. But during the Puerto Rico stay, this committee had to prepare the tour members for arrival at Ciudad in the Dominican Republic — where they would have to comply with entry requirements.
Also in San Juan, this committee had a specific project which provided a typical learning situation. This was the securing of tourist cards for entry into Venezuela.
For all other countries on the itinerary the NEA Division of Travel Service had obtained tourist cards in advance, in Washington (except for one Dominican Republic, as noted above). This procedure was not applicable for the Venezuelan cards, since a personal
appearance is required, and most of the toim members came from cities which do not h consulates. So it was decided that this set cards would be obtained in San Juan. Wlr this was done, the committee on Public Health, Immigration and Customs had an exercise in procedure relating to clearance requirements, and another committee, the one dealing with air and ground transportation, had one in logistics, for the twenty-five members of the group had to be delivered to the consulate, along with their passports or their birth certificates, either being acceptable. The logistics problem was solved by scheduling the visit to the consulate at 9:00 A.M. on a day when a sightseeing tour was coming up. The cars took the party to the consulate, then continued with the planned trip to Luquillo National Forest.
our
m
Sightseeing was a major activity in every country, and one expedition which was typical was a trip to Jarabacoa in the Dominican Republic.
Jarabacoa is located in the Cordillera Central, or Central Mountain Range, and the group enjoyed a memorable luncheon at the Hotel Montaña, 3,000 feet above sea level, but only a 2y2 hour drive from Ciudad Trujillo.
The truly educational experience came mainly on the drive home during the afternoon, as follows, and to wit:
Picture taking was a universal madness with the Tour Leader group — so numen picture taking stops were made during t drive back to Ciudad Trujillo. First came^ stop at a roadside village where the drivers made the introductions to the local citizens, who posed happily for pictures and brewed coffee over an open fire, using coffee pulverized in their own utensils and brewed in drip fashion over an open fire in the open air kitchen. Tour members pronounced it the best coffee they tasted during the entire trip.
The cavalcade moved on, and presently the Future Tour Leaders in the lead car spotted a rural school. The caravan stopped and everybody disembarked, with cameras. The Directora of the school was a glamorous Señorita, whose talents as a teacher were evident even though communication was difficult, because of deficiencies in Spanish on the one hand, and lack of English on the other. And the Future Tour Leaders discovered that this little three room rural school, with the Directora and two assistants, were serving 100-odd youngsters in the higher elementary grades mornings, about an equal number in grades 1 to 3 afternoons, and a capacity enrollment of adults in the evening — a utilization of facilities equalled by a few schools in the U.S.A.
Next stop was at finca where cacao for chocolate was the chief product. This involved hiking into the near-jungle to find a tree with fat orange cacao pods for interesti color pictures, then a visit to the area wh the beans are spread out to dry in the sun.
The drivers next drew up to a rice pad where the photography hounds could point in one direction to snap away contentedly at rice plants emerging out of flooded fields, then turn to another field to get views of rice (Continued on page T-3)
less___
ice
w