Page 10
5.	Health:—native dances every Sunday, la Cumbia, native dance; horseracing, bull fights, soccer is the national sport, hunting and fishing, cock fighting, trout fishing in Lake Tota, de Sucre, fighter; bananas, one of the principal foods.
6.	Mathematics:—comparison in population to other South American countries; graphs showing distribution of population and percentage employed in various industries; graphs showing percentage of exports and imports of various products; peso, monetary unit; time by steamer, railroad, and plane.
7.	Science:—three hundred thousand different colors and species of orchids; varied types of land; varied climate; selvas, llanos, savannas; platinum, gold, emerald mines; togua, ivory nut; jaguars, pumas, panthers, tapirs, armadillos, partridge, exotic birds; crossed by equator; Andes Mts.; José de Cal-das, scientist; medicinal plants; Salto de Tequendama, waterfall.
B.	SKILLS:—it will be important in this unit to stress the difference between propaganda and fact and to outline facts gleaned from reading.
C.	ATTITUDES, INTERESTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS:
1.	To create an understanding of the problems which confront Colombia.
2.	To develop an interest in the historical background of Colombia.
3.	To understand Colombia’s relations, economically and politically, with other countries of the world.
4.	To stimulate an interest in learning more about our neighbors to the South.
V. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A.	THINGS TO DO:
1.	Draw a large map of Colombia showing places of interest, large bodies of water, mountains, sources of important products.
2.	Plan a trip from your home town to Colombia by air. Plan the air travel to places of interest in Colombia.
3.	Display products from Colombia.
4.	Make a bulletin board of current news items on Colombia.
5.	Collect book reviews and display them.
6.	Invite someone from Colombia, or someone who has been to Colombia, to visit your class.
7.	Use movies and strip films on Colombia.
8.	Request further information.
9.	Make a scrap book of pictures of Colombia.
10.	Make slides of coffee plantations, orchid farms, mines, oil fields.
11.	Look up stories of men who are concerned with the history of Colombia.
12.	Trace the routes of the original explorers.
B.	CULMINATION:
1.	Show a set of class made slides in the auditorium and give the story of Colombia through these slides.
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
2.	Any of the items listed under “Things to Do” might be used as a culmination.
VI. LEADS TO NEW UNITS: A study of
Colombia could be used to lead to a study
of other parts of South America on a
comparison basis.
WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED
ABOUT COLOMBIA?
I.	TRUE OR FALSE
1.	Columbus was the first explorer to reach the coast of Colombia.
2.	One of the first permanent settlements was Santa Marta.
3.	Colombia is the only South American country with coasts on both the Atlantic and Pacific.
4.	The equator runs through the center
of Colombia.
5.	The Magdalena River is navigable
throughout its length.
6.	Bogota is often called “the Athens of America.”
7.	Medellin mints most of Colombia’s gold.
8.	Transportation from city to city has presented tremendous problems.
9.	Colombia was the first South American country to develop air travel on a commercial scale.
10.	Women always had the right to vote in Colombia.
II.	DISCUSSION QUESTIONS
1.	Why have airplanes played so important a part in the unification and economic development of Colombia?
2.	Why do we say Colombia occupies a key geographic position in South America?
3.	Why is Colombia not completely dominated by its capital?
4.	How does the foreign commerce of Colombia and the United States complement each other?
5.	Why is Colombia of vital concern to the United States strategically?
III.	ON A MAP OF COLOMBIA LOCATE:
Santa Marta
Equator
Cali
Orinoco River Bogota
IV. MATCHING: Bogota Medellin Barranquilla Cali
Buenaventura Cartagena Santa Marta Manizales
Barranquilla Magdalena River Andes Mts. Cartagena Medellin
chief seaport Pacific seaport mining center capital
largest cathedral banana region airport orchids
V. GENERAL:
1.	Colombia is second to what South American country in the production of coffee?
2.	Between what two bodies of water does Colombia lie?
3.	What part of Colombia is crossed by the equator?
4.	What is the capital of Colombia?
5.	Bound Colombia.
6.	Which city is famous for orchids?
7.	Which city is known as the cultur^
center?	H
8.	Which city was reportedly the fiiS to be settled?
9.	How does Colombia rank in population in South America?
10.	How does Colombia rank in its oil production?
11.	Explain selvas, llanos, savannas.
12.	How does Colombia rank in the production of gold?
13.	How has the airplane helped to alleviate Colombia’s transportation problem?
14.	Which is the second city of the republic?
15.	In what year were women given the right to vote?
16.	How many houses in the legislative body?
17.	How many members in the cabinet?
18.	What is the leading crop and principal export?
19.	What is the principal food?
20.	What are some of the forest products?
21.	Name the three most important minerals.
22.	Where is University City?
23.	Which Indians inhabited Colombia?
24.	Which city is called the “Manchester” of Colombia?
25.	Which city is known as “the Pearl
the Indies”?	I
VOCABULARY
Go over these words. Knowing their meaning will help you to understand what you are reading.
abyss	bottomless gulf or pit
access	way or means of approach
adjudicate	settle, determine, pass judgment on
atonement	making amends
cinchona	tree native in Andes, bark yields quinine
conquistadores	Spanish conquerors
copra	dried Kernel or meat of coconut
cordilleras	chains of mountains, usually principal mountain system
cynicism	sneers, sarcasm
devouring	swallowing, consuming
diversion draft	turn from a course
drought	dry weather, lack of rain
funicular	worked by a rope or tension, a lift
haciendas	country houses, estates
humanists	students of human affairs, scholars ^
inaccessibility	inapproachable
indemnity	compensation for dama|J or loss
ingenuity	inventive talent, skill
impenetrable	cannot be pierced or entered
insurrection	open resistance, revolt