WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 12	STUDY UNIT
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA-II min. sound, black and white, color. Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Dept., Washington 6, D.C.
The film emphasizes present day Colombia by showing the major cities and typical economic and cultural activities as well as the most important natural geographical features of the country. Coffee growing and processing in the Cauca Valley, sugar cane raising, oil wells, modern buildings, and a university all are evidence of typical human activity in Colombia. Historical references accurately sketch the background of Colombia and its people. Excellent maps are used both to locate the country with respect to the United States and to locate the chief activities and places covered in the film.
BOGOTA, CAPITAL OF COLOMBIA-11 min. sound, black and white, color. Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Dept., Washington 6, D.C.
This film of a modern city rooted in history pictures life in urban South America. Much insight is gained into the everyday life of the people of Bogotá — people who live on a high plateau where the temperature is almost always constant. Shown in the city of a half million people are historical people in the streets, market places, recreational areas, transportation facilities, and living facilities. Also shown in this most northern Capital of South America are schools and centers of government activity. Good organization of content and excellent photography make this an outstanding geography film.
COFFEE, THE PRIDE OF COLOMBIA-30 min. sound, black and white. Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Dept., Washington 6, D.C.
Shows scenes in modern cities of Colombia, compared with an old city. Tells the story of coffee from the picking of the berries to the packaging of coffee.
(NOTE: The three films above listed are part of a series produced by the Pan-American Union, Secretariat of the Organization of American States, in cooperation with the countries where the films were made. Their purpose is to provide objective and authoritative information on the peoples of the American Republics and their activities. The films are designed to be of use to those interested in the geography, history, economics, culture and environment of the areas covered; and so clearly do they achieve this objective that they are of interest and of very considerable value in social science classes.) COLOMBIA AND VENEZUELA-11 min. sound, black and white. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, Chicago. Traces discovery, exploration, and settlement of the region; depicts its geographical characteristics; and describes the people, natural resources and economy of modern Colombia and Venezuela. Shows the production of coffee, cacao, sugar, bananas, cotton, hardwood timber and the richest of the re-
gion’s products — petroleum. Animated maps portray the extent of world trade. COLOMBIA, LAND OF CONTRAST - 27 min. sound, color. Sterling — Movies U.S.A., 43 West 61st St., New York City.
A tour of the major cities and rural areas of Colombia, showing the scenic attractions as well as the agricultural, industrial, and natural resources and how they have been developed. Depicts people at work and at play and shows several recreational areas. COLOMBIA, CROSSROADS OF THE AMERICAS — 27 min. sound, black and white. Government Films Dept., United World Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York 39, N. Y.
Produced in 1942 by Julien Bryan for the U.S. Office of Inter-American Affairs. An introductory picture of life in Colombia from a geographic, social and economic viewpoint. We enter a home of one of Bogotá’s foremost families and watch a garden party attended by notables of Colombian political and social circles. The film then describes the various industries of the country dealing especially with the production of oil, coffee and minerals.
SILENT WAR —10 min. sound, black and white. Government Film Dept., United World Films Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York 39, N. Y.
Produced in 1943 by Documentary Films Production for the U.S. Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs. How scientists fight yellow fever in the jungles of Colombia. Shows how vaccine is made, dried, frozen and transported to a town in the jungle.
COLOMBIA-LAND OF MOUNTAIN COFFEE — 30 min. sound, color. Association Films, 347 Madison Avenue, New York City.
The planting, growing, harvesting of coffee as well as the work of the Federation of Coffee Growers of Colombia in improving the standard of living.
Filmstrips
COLOMBIA AND VENEZUELA-60 frames, silent, black and white, with captions. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, 111.
This filmstrip, one of “Our South American Neighbors Series” traces the discovery, exploration and settlement of the region. It depicts its geographical characteristics and describes the people and the natural resources of the country. This filmstrip is based on the motion picture of the same title. COUNTRIES OF THE NORTHWEST OF SOUTH AMERICA - VENEZUELA, COLOMBIA, ECUADOR-Two parts, each 45 frames, silent with captions, color. McGraw-Hill Textfilm Division, 330 West 42nd Street, New York City.
Produced by Popular Science as one of the “Latin-America Regions and Countries of South America,” series.
In this filmstrip the modern cities and primitive villages are photographed. There
are also scenes of the mountains and beauti ful valleys, and of the people at work a, at play.
iti-
fl
COLOMBIA—60 frames, silent with tiSP frames, black and white. Stillfilm, Inc., 35 South Raymond Ave., Pasadena 1, Calif. Includes 29 pictures, and 31 titles. There are pictures of the market place in Barran-quilla, of Santa Maria, and of the people and their homes.
COLOMBIA —47 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Society for Visual Education, Inc., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 4, 111.
Photographs show contemporary life, industries, natural resources and historic landmarks.
BOGOTA — 37 frames, silent, color. Herbert E. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Ave., Hackensack, New Jersey.
Capital of Colombia, view of the city at 8500 feet and its varying commerce of coffee, oil, cattle and orchids. Modern architecture, baroque churches, and colonial monuments. Tunja, east of Bogotá, founded in 1539. Commerce on the Sinn River. Herds of cattle on the vast pampas of the upper Rio Sinu. Oil drilling operations in the jungles. CARTAGENA — 39 frames, silent, color. Herbert E. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Ave., Hackensack, New Jersey.
Fortress-city port of Colombia. Once the port of call of Imperial Spain. Ancient walls, forts, redoubts around which modern city flows — with the commerce on the Magda'len|| River. Baranquilla on the Magdalena Rivifl a purely commercial city.	fl
TRIBES AND TEMPLES OF COLOMBIA — 37 frames, silent, color. Herbert E. Budek Co., 55 Poplar Avenue, Hackensack, New Jersey.
The strange, mysterious stone carvings of San Agustín and the contrast of life in the Upjrer Amazon jungle. Indian tribes: living conditions, trades, costumes.
Records
Music of Colombia (FW 6804), Folksways Records, 117 W. 46th St., New York City, 331/3 rpm longlay record.
From high in the Andes of South America come many of our popular dance rhythms; the rumba, bolero, samba; and a dance instrument that now flavors most of our jazz bands — the bongo drums.
The Folkway Records (longplay) album, “Music of Colombia” provides a glimpse of the originals — wandering bands of street musicians playing guitars (of Spanish origin), mandolins, accordions, meracas, carracas, and musical groups called “chirimias” playing flutes of Moorish origin and “timbas” (bongo drums). And the dances at picnics or fiestas, such as the “banbuco” are colorful sights on the grass of a river’s edge or on a ballroom floor.
The rural folk generally dance the trad^ tional “bambucos,” “pasillos,” “rumbafl “porros,” “guabinas,” “boleros,” “antigucfl and their songs deal with events and people? The favorite selections of sophisticated society are the “mambos,” “porros,” “botes.”
In the notes that accompany this record, the instruments and dances are described in detail.