BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
COLOMBIA	Page 5
and leaped into the blue waters with her
•,fant daughter in her arms. The cacique Led to rescue his wife through a sorcerer at she would not come. In despair the cacique retired to solitude, but each year he celebrated great solemnities at Guatavita during which his subjects brought treasures to throw into the lake in honor of the princess.
(Incidentally many towns and cities in Colombia bear Chitcha names such as Chi-quinquirá, Zipaquirá, Fusagasugá, Cachipay which might remind you of the “She sells sea shells by the sea shore’’ tongue twister.)
Medellin
Medellin (about 250,000 inhabitants) is the second city of Colombia. Capital of the rich Antioquia Department, it has long enjoyed a reputation for culture and progress. The city lies at 5,000 feet altitude in the beautiful valley of Aburra in the foothills of the central cordillera. The valley, though small, is one of the most fertile and lovely in Colombia; it is surrounded by green mountains and crossed by a small river running over gold-bearing sands to the Río Cauca.
The climate is pleasant averaging about 70°F. Picturesque white houses and fragrant gardens can be seen all over the nearby mountains. Many flowers grow luxuriantly there, including orchids of all kinds and colors. Few Colombian cities have made comparable progress in the present century. The population has tripled since 1900. Medellin has been called the Manchester of Colombia.
•here are many cotton mills, and the na-on’s best factories are here. Medellin mints iost of the gold; its coffee commands a special price in the world market; its National School of Mines has prepared the finest engineers of the country; its business men control the largest enterprises of Colombia; it is the center of commercial aviation. Medellin is a highly cultural city. It is justly proud of its institutions of learning such as the Academy of Jurisprudence of Antioquia, the Academy of History and Literature, the University, the National Schools of Agriculture and of Mines, and the schools of social sciences and politics.
Medellin is still rich in colonial homes which are in sharp contrast to the ultramodern architecture of the office buildings. Notable among the latter are the Alvarez Santamaría building, and the edificio La Bastilla in which the American Consulate is located. Of particular interest is the cathedral of Villanueva, on Parque Bolivar, new and imposing, said to be the largest all-brick church in the world.
MU
Barranquilla
Colombia’s principal seaport and airport is Barranquilla. With some 200,000 inhabitants, it is a commercial and industrial city. It lies on the west bank of the Rio Magdalena not far from the Caribbean Sea. The site, seven miles from the coast, was probably hosen by the early settlers because condi-ns seemed to be more favorable than on e lowland delta. But sandbars long pre-ented access by large ships.
Eventually the Colombian government cleared away the sandbars. Today large ocean liners reach Barranquilla, and modern concrete docks have been constructed. The journey from the mouth of the Magdalena to
Barranquilla is fascinating. Along the shore picturesque huts slip by, and sidewheelers, reminiscent of Mississippi steamboat days, as well as dugout canoes share the river with streamlined ships.
The cheerful modern city presents many contrasts: a powerful motor car gliding past a small boy on a patient donkey; a gigantic airplane flying over an old-fashioned sailing canoe on the river; a primitive dance known as la cumbia is executed by candlelight to the rhythm of strange musical instruments in certain sections of the city while in social clubs well-dressed men and women dance to the music of swing orchestras.
There are excellent municipal services, fine residences, good hotels, beautiful plazas and promenades, and attractive surroundings. Barranquilla is a progressive and growing city with modern office and commercial buildings, theaters and interesting shops.
Cartagena
Cartagena has been called the Pearl of the Indies and much visited for its historical importance. For more than two centuries it was a stronghold of the conquistadores. It grew so rich that several hundred million pesos were spent on walls and fortifications for protection against raids by pirates. Today, with some 120,000 inhabitants, it is the capital of Bolivar Department. Cartagena is important as a port of entry, and its wharves enable it to handle a good share of Colombia’s exports, especially of oil and coffee.
During the colonial period Cartagena rivaled Lima and Mexico City. Here ships from Spain, laden with goods for the colonies, met pack trains coming from many parts of the Caribbean area. The fortifications were not always sufficient protection against pirates. Robert Baal sacked the town in 1543. A few years later Martin Côte forced entrance into the bay. Francis Drake and Henry Morgan assaulted the city as well as
the English admiral Sir Edward Vernon. Cartagena has not forgotten their names.
The old walled city lies on the low sandy bulge of a curiously shaped peninsula. The new residential districts are attractive and modern, but the old area within the walls remains the heart of the city and is by far the most interesting to visitors. The ramparts with their sentry boxes convey a vivid sense of the turbulent age of pirate attacks. The streets are narrow, and the houses with hanging balconies and secluded patios are strikingly tinted. Cartagena is a city of fortresses and legends, a historical city of Colombia.
Tropical Dishes with a Capital T
To know about typical Colombian dishes we ask one of our Colombian friends.
“It is not easy,” he says. “Let us take an average day in an average home — taking the term ‘average’ in a very general sense. “For breakfast, a roll and very sweet chocolate; mid-morning, coffee or coffee with milk, and toast; for lunch, fruit, soup, meat and rice, cheese and potatoes, a piece of bread, a dulce (fruit cooked with a great deal of sugar) and coffee; in mid-afternoon, chocolate and bread; dinner, similar to lunch.”
Just like any other South American country, Colombia has its own dishes. One of these is roasted corn. With the husks still on, ears of green corn are put in a hot oven for; thirty minutes. Then the husks are removed, the ears brushed with a split green onion dipped in butter and browned on top of the stove. Another dish is called ariquipe. It tastes like sweetened condensed milk. According to our informant the making of it is simple: “Five quarts of milk in a large pot with a pound and a half of sugar, a pinch of soda and two sticks of cinnamon, and cook the mixture for three hours. During the last hour it must be stirred constantly to prevent sticking. Add a teaspoon of flour to thicken it and make it whiter.” Ariquipe is
Photo from Avianca
ZIPAQUIRA — For years salt has been taken from the mine at Zipaquira — 30 miles from Bogota. In one of the caverns, the mine workers, in their leisure time, have carved an altar and the stations of the cross in the walls, which are rock salt. Regular services are conducted in the church.