WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page 6	STUDY UNIT
served on pancakes and really is good. In some Bogotá theaters you may purchase “obleas” — paper-thin wafers of pastry put together with ariquipe.
Each region of Colombia has its own dishes. Along the Magdalena River for instance, there is a dish called viudo (widower), It is a stew containing fish, plantain, yucca and arracacha. The viudo is generally cooked in a hole drilled on the river shore, lined inside with banana leaves and covered with them. On top of it a pile of sticks is laid, and a fire kept burning for about an hour. (It sounds quite primitive but shows a great deal of ingenuity.) Now if instead of fish, beef'is used the result is a national dish— sancocho. In Colombia one finds fruits in abundance the names of which can be added to the traveler’s vocabulary and taste, fruits such as chirimoya, mango, mamey, guayaba, papaya and curuba.
Men of Letters
Colombia has given to the Spanish world artists, men of letters, poets, humanists and philologists. In the field of music Josá Rozo Contreras stands out for his suite “Tierra Caliente” (Hot Land); Guillermo Uribe Holguin for his opera based on Indian themes. Ignacio Gómez Jaramillo is a painter of disi tinction; Miguel Sopó, sculptor, had an exhibition in New York in 1949.
In Colombia as well as in other South American countries literature presents social problems, or at least describes social situations that contain the germs of problems. The Colombian José Eustasio Rivera, in his novel The Vortex, does not merely present problems of relation between human beings. He goes deeper into the problem; he describes man’s fight with the jungle. In the Vortex Rivera takes his principal characters across the South American jungle from Colombia to Brazil in search of rubber. Their trip becomes an Odyssey in which all the places visited belong to the kingdom of Hades. In its most striking episode, the travelers are compelled to throw themselves into a marsh and stay in it for twelve hours, surrounded by frightened rodents and serpents, while a huge army of red ants, tambochas, goes by, devouring everything that is sufficiently soft, stripping every plant of its leaves and every animal of its flesh.
In the field of poetry, Guillermo Valencia is one of the best. He is exquisite in form, fairly Parnassian in style, and excellent translator of poetry from many languages. In his book, Anarkos, he combines his social sympathies and his religious faith in a characteristic fashion.
Another great poet is José Asunción Silva. He was a mournful romantic. His fame he owes to a Nocturne, a tragic elegy, romantic in feeling, but revolutionary in subject, style, and meter. Silva became a consistent pessimist, with a touch of sarcastic cynicism in his Bitter Drops, but his pessimism did not go very deep. He lived in despair because he saw his world crumbling around him and—darkened by many deaths among those nearest him, his future uncertain with economic disaster and hard, unsuccessful work — he often sought refuge in the happy memories of his childhood.
In the field of philology Rufino José Cuervo and Miguel Antonio Caro are the best
known. Caro made many versions of short poems from classical and modern languages, and the best Spanish versions of the Aeneicl and the Georgies. He also wrote a Latin grammar in collaboration with Cuervo. Andrés Bello (Venezuelan) and Rufino José Cuervo (Colombian) were the greatest grammarians of Spanish in the 19th century. Cuervo, besides, developed from a grammarian into a philologist. His Apuntaciones Criticas, his copious notes to Bello’s Gramática de la lengua castellana, and his Diccionario de construcción y régimen de la lengua castellana are classical works.
The Land of Law
On leaving Colombia after an interesting visit one begins to wonder about what it is that makes that country different from the other South American countries. Language, religion, history, traditions are almost similar to Mexico, Peru or Chile. Colombia’s
economic problems are not too different from those of other countries. Colombia^ are friendly, hospitable, courteous just H other Americans.	V
Though generalizations are usually wrong, one might be tempted to say that Colombians seem to be more serious and dignified than their neighbors. They are proud of their tradition of civil government, and suffered deeply when that tradition was unfortunately broken in recent years.
Bolivar, the man of war, led the army of patriots to victory in the battle of Boyacâ, August 7, 1819. Santander, the man of law, established the constitutional regime of New Granada, the Republic of Colombia of today. “The sword has made you independent,” said Bolivar after Boyaca, “the law will make you free.” And that is what Colombia is and wants to: a land of law and freedom.
Colombia —An Economy of Contrasts
by Lou A. Phillips
The Republic of Colombia, located in the northwestern corner of South America is a land of contrasts — both within its own borders and with other Latin American nations.
There are coffee fincas and banana estates which tell of the predominantly agricultural wealth of the nation; petroleum fields and emerald mines which represent other valuable natural resources; modern factories which point to new industrialization; and orchids, 300,000 different colors and species, which merely hint at the natural beauty which can be found in what is often said to be the “most Spanish” of the South American Republics.
There are ultra modern buildings side by side with typical colonial architecture — streamlined cars and burros — and airplanes which, because of the geographical character of the country, have played so important a role in physical unification and thus economic development of the nation.
Despite the limited size of this region it contains more varied types of land than any other comparable area in South America. There are summits reaching to 18,000 feet which are perpetually covered with snow; high intermountain basins; tablelands; forested slopes; great rivers; lowland plains; and rich tropical vegetation. Climate, which actually depends on altitude, is equally varied ranging from warm and humid, through cool and pleasant, to cold.
In comparison to its western section, the eastern two-thircls of Colombia is relatively empty; inhabited by roughly ten percent of the total population. To the south this area, called selvas, is covered by nearly impenetrable jungle growth drained by the tributaries of the Amazon. Except along the principal rivers it is largely unexplored and inhabited mostly by tribes of Indians. The northern part of the region, called llanos, is an area of open tropical plains, alternately flooded and parched with the changing seasons and drained by tributaries of the Orinoco River.
Unlike many Latin American nations, Colombia is not completely dominated by its capital city. Although Bogotá is the political, cultural and social center of the nation it is not the center of economic life. There is Medellin, the chief industrial min ing and coffee center; Barranquilla, locate^ on the Caribbean and the country’s maj port; Cali, the prime commercial city of t west; Buenaventura, the most importan Pacific port; and the Caribbean port of Cartagena, the Ciudad Heroica of the War of Independence — all prosperous and graceful cities in their own rights.
Transportation between these cities and from them to other parts of Colombia has presented tremendous problems. With few exceptions most populated districts are in the interior of the country isolated from the coast by mountain chains and there is no continuous rail or road communication from the interior to the coast. Instead, the Magdalena River and its tributaries, which flow between the Andean cordilleras the length of the nation, comprise the main arteries of traffic. Most of the railroads run from the river to interior points. Navigation is slow and open only to small draft vessels, necessitating transshipment at Barranquilla, whose harbor is improved with extensive port works. For this reason air transportation was an actual necessity in Colombia and that nation was the first South American country to develop air travel on a commercial scale.
In 1920 an air transportation concession was granted to a German-Colombian company known as Scadta which operated until the outbreak of World War II. At that time it was taken over by Aerovías Nacionales d Colombia, known as AVIANCA, and Germ pilots and ground crews were sent home Europe. Post World War II expansion w extremely rapid and Colombia is now covered by a closely interlocking network of air routes with excellent international connections.
Today the traditional route to Bogotá
in-
w
»