October 1958
VOL. XV, No. $
Published by Pan American World Airways
by George Gardner
Members: Teachers who plan to lead educational tours.
Itinerary: Miami, San Juan, Puerto Rico; Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican RepuBlic; Caracas, Venezuela; Bogota, Colombia; Panama City, Panama; San Jose, Costa Rica; Havana, Cuba; Miami.
Sponsors: The National Education Association and Western Illinois University. Graduate Credit: Granted by Western Illinois, to those who registered for credit, and successfully completed the graduate level work assigned.
I “Tour Director: Dr. Arthur Olsen, Latin IVmerican specialist for Western Illinois ■Jniversity .
o-Director: George Gardner, Educational Director of Pan American World Airways. Transportation: Pan American, Avianca and Lacsa.
i ^ajeros
ffigj JMjÈlsi ro
K«8:
CIUDAD TRUJILLO—The student tour leaders pose for a photograph upon arrival at the capital of the Dominican Republic. Tour Director Olsen is peering around the edge of
the sign post.
procedures — did so with great good nature. Far from resenting the extra work this made for them, they gladly took time to explain procedures and the reasons for them.
Intercontinental Hotels Corporation was a cooperating agency. Managers and staff members at the San Juan Intercontinental Hotel in San Juan, the Hotel Embajador in Ciudad Trujillo, the Hotel Tamanaco in Caracas, the Hotel Tequendema in Bogotá and the Nacional in Havana gladly took extra time to deal with committees, rather than a single leader for all functions, to help the Future Tour Leaders learn their assigned lessons.
We know now how to operate an educational tour the hard way!
Set up a group consisting of twenty-three tour directors and two tour members. Be sure your two members include one with twenty years or more experience as a teacher and educational tour leader and one with twenty years of experience with an air line, including the assignment of representing air transportation to educators.
Then instruct the “members” to make life difficult for their twenty-three “tour-directors” — really difficult, with no sneaky tricks barred.
That was the basic philosophy of the Tour for Tour Leaders, which was in the field from 15 June to 7 July, 1958.
It’s true that the two “members” at times reverted to their roles as Director and Codirector and the twenty-three Future Tour Leaders, relaxed into the status of tour members, but when this happened Olsen and Gardner made it their business to get back to fundamentals as quickly as possible and put tour management back into the hands of the student leaders.
Pan American Traffic people all around the Caribbean, asked to deal with one committee chairman for baggage checking, another for ticket lifting and still another for public health, immigration and customs
PAN AMERICAN TO OPEN JET SERVICE OCTOBER 26
Thrift service on the 575 mile-per hour Jet Clippers with no increase in fares. The round trip economy fare between New York and Paris is $489.60; between New York and Rome it is $591.50. The New York-London economy fare is $453.60.
The number of deluxe and economy accommodations may vary to meet the demand but it is expected that the first Paris-bound flights will carry 32 first-class and 89 economy passengers. Total capacity of the 707 in an all-economy configuration is 165.
Dr. Olsen started setting up problems at the initial orientation session in the Clipper Club Lounge at Miami’s International Airport when he suggested that the committees in charge decide upon several matters — among them, should the Committee on Health, Customs and Immigration hold all passports and/or birth certificates, or leave them with individuals? Also, should an arrangement be set up for seating in the aircraft so that members could alternate in having window seats?
(iContinued on page T-2)
The first scheduled transatlantic jet service will be inaugurated by Pan American World Airways with daily flights between New York, Paris and Rome on October 26th, according fekan announcement by Willis G. Lipscomb, H:e President, Traffic and Sales.
^Prhe jet flights, to be operated with Boeing 707 Jet Clippers, will cut the flying time between New York and Paris to seven hours.
Daily Jet Clipper flights between New York and London will start on November 16.
Pan American will offer both deluxe “President Special” and economy-class Clipper