BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
COLOMBIA	Page 9
Ì
%
Government of Colombia
olombia, with a unitary republican form [government has been one of the very few tin American countries to develop a two-party system. The President is elected by direct vote for a term of four years, and cannot be re-elected for the immediate succeeding term. In 1957, women voted for the first time in elections. The President is assisted by a Cabinet of nine members. Two substitutes are elected by the Senate, for two-year terms, and one of these would fill the office of president in case of a vacancy. The national legislative body, or Congress, consists of a Senate and a House of Representatives. Senators are elected indirectly for four-year terms, and Representatives are elected directly for two-year terms. The highest judiciary body is a Supreme Court of nine members. Public education is under the jurisdiction of the Department of National Education. There are over 18,000 schools in the nation with more than one and one-half million students. The twenty-eight universities of the country have enrollments of more than thirteen thousand students.
COLOMBIA
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why is Colombia referred to as the most Spanish of the South American Republics?
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	Because of current conditions it is most important that we become well acquainted with our neighbors in South America.
2.	There has been much current news about political and economic developments in Colombia.
3.	Colombia has become strategically important to the United States.
4.	Colombia and the United States do a great deal of trading with each other.
5.	The airplane has helped to make many changes in Colombia.
6.	There is much of interest in learning about how Colombia became a republic.
7.	This was one of the countries Vice President Nixon visited on his Latin American tour.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A. APPROACH:
1.	Use of current articles in newspapers and magazines would make interesting material for a beginning discussion.
2.	Visual aids suggested in this issue are always a good means of arousing interest.
3.	A review of another South American country, already studied, might be a stepping off point for the study of Colombia.
4.	A report of any book mentioned in the Bibliography would start some students thinking.
5.	Tours of American representatives, such as Nixon and Milton Eisenhower, could lead to a study of the countries visited.
Photo from Avianca
BOGOTA — The gold museum in the Banco de Republica in Bogota is a display of solid gold jewelry and ornaments created by the Indians before the discovery of the Americas
by explorers from Europe.
B. SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	Why have there been so many changes in the government of Colombia?
2.	Of what importance have Colombia’s oil and coffee been to the economic world?
3.	How has the airplane made changes in Colombia?
4.	What contributions have been made by Colombia to the culture of the world?
5.	How does Bogota differ from many other capital cities?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER:
1. Social Studies:— location; coastline on two oceans; equator crosses Southern part; Orinoco River, Magdalena River, Cali River, Cauca River, Bogota River; Andes Mts.; Cordillera Mts.; Lake Tota, Guatavita; products such as coffee, bananas, (United Fruit Co.), emeralds, (only mines outside of Siberia), wild rubber, dyewoods,. oil, gold (largest South American producer), Tolu balsam, Copaiba trees, cattle raising; republic, president elected every four years, Senate and House of Representatives, 9 member cabinet; women voting since 1957; Bogota, capital, called “Athens of America”; cities, Barranquilla, Cartagena, (Pearl of the Indies), Santa Marta, (first settlement), Cali, Medellin, Buenaventura, Bele-cito; discovery, de Ojeda, Columbus; Belalcazar and Federmann, explorers; famous people, Santander, Toro, de Quesada, Bolivar, Mosquera, Pinilla, Gomez, Rojas, Peria, Sainz, Urrutia; three quarters of population in Agri-
culture; member of United Nations; new president, Dr. Alberto Lieras Camargo; Chitcha Indians; National School of Mines; very Spanish in culture and tradition.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words:—listed in this issue. Also many common Spanish words.
b.	Literature: — several writers, José Eustacio Rivera, Rufino José Cuervo, Miguel Antonio Caro; poets, Guillermo Valencia and José Asuncion Silva; Jorge Isaacs; read some of the books listed in the Bibliography.
c.	Oral Communications: — asking questions of people who have visited Colombia; answering questions and making reports from research by members of the class; reviewing a book or movie; debating s'ome of the current issues.
d.	Written communication:—requesting more information; inviting people who have been to Colombia; planning a trip through Colombia; describing imaginary visits to oil fields, plantations, and other interesting places.
3.	Art: — Quinta Bolivar; Museum of Colombian Art, Gold Museum, Emerald Museum, National Museum; Cathedral Villaneuva, largest all brick church in the world; modern architecture in University City; painter, Jaramillo; sculptor, Miguel Sopo; in Cartagena, figurines are sculptured from crude rubber.
4.	Music:—Contreras and Holquin, musicians; Conservatory of Music; National orchestra.