WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Pages	STUDY UNIT
obtainable; over the eastern llanos covered with natural pasture; and in the region of the Amazon River covered with rubber trees. The nation cannot transfer these baldios by sale, but is allowed to adjudicate them in perpetuity.
Colombia has extensive mineral resources, the most important of which are petroleum, gold and platinum. The nation ranks as the third most important producer of petroleum in Latin America being exceeded only by Venezuela and Mexico. Output has been limited by the capacity of developed fields near the coast. Actually petroleum is second to coffee as a source of natural wealth. Gasoline, asphalt, lubricants and other bi-prod-ucts are also produced.
The production of gold has become increasingly important in recent years and exports of gold form a considerable part of total exports. Colombia is the largest South American producer of gold and the second chief source of platinum which occurs with gold. The only emerald mines in the world outside of Siberia are in Colombia who has exported the stones for centuries. The emerald mines produce veins of green quartz which are broken up by pick and crowbar. The matrix is then washed in a sluice which is searched for emeralds. The stones are marketed in Paris. Other ores not worked to any degree at present due to inaccessibility include copper, silver, lead, antimony, mercury, manganese, iron, mica and sulphur.
Coal reserves are extensive but the inaccessibility of most of the deposits has retarded their development and thus the development of heavy industry to a great extent. There is a large integrated steel plant at Belencito however. Nearly all important coal mines are near the cities of Cali, Bogota and Medellin. Industry is concentrated in these three cities and in Barranquilla.
Industrial development has also been hampered by shortages of transportation and electric energy. Potentially available water power has been estimated at 5,400,000 horse power, but to date only 200,000 horse power has been developed. At the beginning of the Twentieth Century, Colombia had little more than 100 industrial establishments but two world wars and a protective tariff have led to extraordinary industrial development. Today the nation has over 8,000 manufacturing enterprises with over 152,000 employees.
Most important by value of production are foodstuffs which account for 42 percent of the total; beverages 12 percent; textiles 11 percent; shoes and apparel 8 percent; and chemicals 5 percent. Although manufacturing establishments now produce a wide range of products, most of them may be classified as consumer goods. The principal products manufactured include textiles, cigars and cigarettes, beer, wines, and spirits, flour and flour pastes, chocolate, sugar, vegetable oils, soap, candles, cement and cement products, drugs, leather goods, matches, glass and toilet articles.
Other industries produce rayon fabrics, lard, canned fruits, canned fish, paper and cardboard. Most of the raw materials employed in Colombian industry are imported, although there has been increased use of domestic copra, cottonseed, sesame, and babassu in the vegetable oil industry, and cotton, wheat, sugarcane, hides and skins, fruits and fish are processed within the country.
Unlike the situation in many Latin American countries, domestic production of a number of consumer goods in Colombia has not overcome dependence upon the importation of similar commodities. On the contrary, although production of most of the articles mentioned above has increased in recent
Photo from Avianca
CARTAGENA — Part of the old fortifications of San Felipe.
years, imports of almost all of them have also risen.	4k
Colombian exports usually valued annH ally at about $337,000,000 consist almcSI entirely of agricultural and mineral products, especially coffee, bananas and petroleum. Over 70 percent of total exports is accounted for by coffee; about 16 percent by petroleum; and about 5 percent by bananas. The remainder is made up of animal and animal products mainly hides and skins, some manufactured products largely platinum and its alloys, forest products, game and fish products, cotton cloth and miscellaneous commodities. Leading customers are the United States which purchases over 70% of Colombian exports; Germany which buys about 7 percent; the Netherlands Antilles 5 percent; Sweden 3 percent; and the Netherlands 2 percent.
Manufactured and agricultural products are the most important groups of imports purchased by Colombia. Total imports usually are valued at about $282,500,000 per year. About 80 percent of the manufactured products imported consist of finished goods; the remainder being semi-finished. Imports of machinery have increased steadily and include electrical machinery and other apparatus, mining and construction machinery, textile machinery and sewing machines. Metal manufacture purchases consist largely of iron and steel, finished chemical products, transportation materials, automobiles, trucks, chassis and tires. Semi-finished imports arj^ made up of iron and steel and prepared yar^B and fibers for the most part. Machinery irl ports account for 16 percent of all import^i steel and metal products for 15 percent; textiles and yarns 14 percent; and pharmaceuticals 6 percent. Leading suppliers are the United States which is the source of 62 percent of all Colombian imports; Germany which accounts for 12 percent; and the United Kingdom, France and Canada each accounting for three percent.
Economically, the foreign commerce of Colombia and the United States complement each other. Colombian exports of coffee to the United States have increased steadily during recent years. Recent development'of Colombia’s newer petroleum fields in conjunction with United States capital has led to the shipment of equipment and supplies from the United States and increased petroleum sales to the United States. Gold production is also increasing.
We need what Colombia has to sell and she needs many of the things we offer. Strategically, Colombia is of vital concern to the United States due to its proximity to the Panama Canal.
Psychologically the two nations have quite a good deal in common as proven by the fact that energetic middle class Colombians seem as thoroughly at home in the United States as do our professional or businessmen Bogotá. Optimum relations have not alwa® existed between the two countries. But bas® on economics, strategic considerations anff psychology plus the deep sense of individualism and respect of freedom common to both nations, difficulties of the moment should be capable of solution given an equal amount of understanding on both sides.