Page T-4
PAN AMERICAN
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
('Continued, from page T-3) cabs, count the people too, and get everything done in twenty minutes speaks well for the thoroughness with which they had learned their lessons by this time.
At the hotel, though, there was a SNAFU — not a manufactured one this time, but a real one. When the tour baggage was assembled in the hotel lobby the count was short. Two bags were missing. The count had been correct when the bags were loaded at the airport, now it was short. And the cabs by this time had been dismissed.
The bags could not be located, and two Future Tour Leaders had to make do for the night with what they had in their PAA overnight bags. Next morning the bags appeared. They had been stowed in the trunk of one of the cabs, and the driver had neglected to unload them.
Lesson learned: Get the bags counted before you let your cabs get away from you.
*****
MODEL EXPERTS—Members of the Honolulu Aviation education workshop examine some of the models which were laboratory specimens in the workshop model aviation project.
Talking things over during the flight from Havana back to the starting point in Miami, the Future Tour Leaders concluded that there is one thing in tour leadership upon which you can always depend: No matter how carefully you plan, there always will be something a little bit different than was anticipated. Ability to improvise quickly, and to remain relaxed while doing so, is a prime factor. They also came to realize that the detailed planning which had preceded their Tour Leaders Tour project did pay off in normally smooth operation, that without such planning they might well have been smothered in SNAFU’s.
For the Tour Leaders Tour, of course, the educational objective was learning to lead tours. So everything that happened was grist for the mills of the committees and the group seminar sessions.
The techniques utilized for the Tour Leader Tour training program can be adapted readily to other areas of learning, be it a group of language teachers travelling abroad to strengthen their conversational ability and to add to knowledge of the countries where the language is spoken, a group interested in comparative education, a group of social studies teachers, or whatever. Pre-Planning, reading, personal contacts, discussion enroute and final evaluation are the labels of the techniques.
What were the end results,
One is agreed upon unanimously — it was a unique experience — everybody had fun, and everybody learned a lot, including the Tour Director and Co-director.
Results in terms of new tour leaders operating in the educational travel field will not be clearly seen until time passes and the graduates of the training course have had opportunities to prove themselves.
There is an excellent prospect that another such group may travel to some part of the 1959. Anyone interested should write to NLA, Division of—! i s „	iScrvicc or
to the Educational Director of Pan American World Airways.
WORKSHOPS INDOCTRINATE HUNDREDS OF TEACHERS IN AVIATION EDUCATION
At least thirty-two teacher training institutions held aviation education workshops during the summer of 1958. That is the total number of which the National Aviation Educational Council had information. There may have been others.
Best attended, apparently, was the work shop at the University of Hawaii, cooperating with the Civil Air Patrol (Pacific Region) and the United States Air Force. It had 220 participants. Others ranged in attendance from 15 to 100.
Photographs from the Honolulu workshop accompanying this report were selected deliberately to emphasize the casual and friendly attitude that prevailed. A feature of scheduling which was in harmony with that principle was the concentration of all lecture and laboratory work on four days of the week, Monday to Thursday, leaving the long weekend free for individual projects, including trips to the other islands.
On the side of volume of accomplishment was the rugged daily schedule followed, beginning at 8 a.m. each day. Lectures, demonstrations, seminars and laboratory projects were scheduled closely from that early first session to 4 p.m. on each day, and required individual projects had to be worked out in free time evenings and weekends.
The work shop was in session from June 16 through July 17. It met, not on campus at the University, but in the Hawaiian Village Hotel. Nearly 150 of the participants were from the main land, and most of them lived at the hotel. All travelled to the Paradise of the Pacific by air.
Actually, two workshops ran concurrently, one for teachers attending for the first time, the other for those with credit in a previous aviation education workshop, or with other experience qualifying them for the advanced work.
Tbe_“Workshop in Aviation Education,” was conducted as a pre-service or in-service
course for teachers, counselors and school administrators at all educational levels, and there were no prerequisites. Topics covered included American air power, the simple scientific principles of aviation, vocational opportunities, and “the scientific, social eo nomic and political impact of the airpl upon our shrinking world.” Emphasis w! upon the manner in which aviation can en-courage general education course offerings.
In the “Advanced Workshop” the program consisted of a professionally conducted academic seminar, including directed reading with study oriented toward individual projects designed to develop leadership in aviation education. Areas stressed included curriculum development, curriculum materials, pedagogical methods and techniques, school and community aviation education leadership and advanced research in aviation education.
In both sections, the credit awarded was 5 semester hours.
On July 7, 8 and 9 the program for all participants, plus additional educators and others who were in Honolulu and in a position to attend, was a Space Symposium with special guest lecturers including Wernher von Braun, Director of Development of the Army’s Ballistic Missile Agency; Captain Iven C. Kincheloe, U.S. Air Force Space Test Pilot; Krafft Ehricke of Convair-Astronautics and Dr. Robert Stollberg, Professor of Physical Science at San Francisco State College.
The patterns indicated above were to be found in the other workshops across the country—with considerable variation. Length ranged from two weeks upward, ere' awarded was from two semester hours ij ward. Many of the workshops have bo offered for as long as five, in some cases eight or ten years. Most will have sessions in the summer of 1959, and the source of information is the National Aviation Education Council at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.
rat
9
W1
*