PA.IV AMERICA.IV
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page T-3
B
(Continued from page T-2) mature stage, with the fields drained of
Targets of opportunity were used when found, and the best of these came when the caravan halted in the town of La Vega to have a tire repaired. As must always happen, a child peered out of a doorway, a tour member struck up acquaintance, Mother came to see ¿que passa? and in a matter of minutes most of the tour members were visiting with Mama, her little ones and assorted cousins and aunts in the living room.
nail
1
Of various topics discussed in seminar sessions one was Local Resource Persons — How to Secure and Use Them. This is a matter partly for advance thought and prior arrangement by correspondence. But the Future Tour Leaders now are convinced that equal importance must be attached to such resource persons as their hostess in La Vega (at the stop for tire repairs), taxi drivers and persons you meet in hotel lobbies.
Other topics included tour agencies, hotels, tips and tipping, clearance requirements relating to public health, immigration and customs, techniques for interviewing through interpreters, free time activities. Also, seminar reports were given on the countries visited with respect to history, geography, economics, government, national attitudes and traditions. Then this information was nailed down through experience on city and jintryside tours.
or example: An all day trip in Venezuela
fovided an inspection of the processing plant which purifies the water supply for Caracas, a visit to a church in the town of Ocumare, and a stay of several hours at a finca. In Venezuela and other of the Southern Americas, a finca in a place in the country which may have a varied agricultural program, a specific one like coffee or cacao or it may be like the finca near Ocumare, which is the home of Pompera rum, wine, and vermouth. Pompera’s manager conducted the group through the distilleries, bodegas (warehouses) and bottling works, then to an out-door dining area for an authentic Venezuelan luncheon. Afterward the group inspected a fine new school building just completed, for occupancy in the fall, where boys fourteen years of age and up will live in dormitories and engage in a work and learn program. They will have employment duties mornings and secondary level instruction afternoons.
A score of experiences comparable to the Ocumare expedition were included in the activities schedule.
len
m
acr<
Added to the planned activities were others set up on the spur of the moment, like attending the performance of the Nobel prize inning play “Caligula” in Caracas. The ater party was organized in the Tamanaco tel — the group boarded cabs for the trip cross the city to the Teatro Nacional and Dr. Olsen was spokesman in buying the tickets. The available choice at this late hour was “sofa” at 15 Bolivars ($5.00) or galeria at 3 Bolivars ($1.00). Guess we don’t need to say what the travelling teachers chose!
In the galeria, while waiting for the curtain to rise, one of the Future Tour Leaders struck up an acquaintance with a young Venezuelan actor who became informal instructor to the group during intermissions — describing the action of the play in English, for those whose Spanish was not up to the situation, and providing information about the theater in Venezuela. Moreover, this was opening night and the Presidential box was occupied by President Wolfgang Larrazabal.
Another unscheduled expedition was arranged by the Pan American staff in Caracas: a ride up the slope of Pica de Avila on the five mile Teleférico (cable car) to the fabulous Humboldt Hotel, 6,904 feet above sea level on the top of the mountain. The Future Tour Leaders were guests of the management at cocktails, inspected the public rooms and one of the suites, and enjoyed, in the 20th story Pent House, a moment of true hilarity, an explanation of which will be attempted.
A drink served to the Future Tour Leaders was a combination of vermouth and Drambuie, garnished with pineapple. One Future Tour Leader wanted its name. So, she inquired of a guest whom she knew was not in the Future Tour Leaders’ group. She didn’t know t-hat he was Miguel “Mike” Casteñedo of Pan American. Mike didn’t know the name of the drink, but quickly checked in with the bartender, who said it was called the “Lord Chatham.” Mike wrote it on a card for the inquiring Future Tour Leader.
But there was a buzz of conversation which lowered the potential of audibility and little Miss Future Tour Leader thought Mike had misunderstood and was telling her his name. Anxious to do the right thing, she asked some one else for guidance as to the appropriate form of addressing one whose name was “Lord Chatham.”
In minutes, the development made the rounds and was relayed to PAA Sales Representative Casteñado, who promptly doubled up with laughter. Miss Future Tour Leader started to be embarrassed, but then decided to join in the laughter, and the net result of that misunderstanding was an impromptu party afterward at which “Lord Chatham” taught some of the interesting Venezuelan dance steps to Miss Future Tour Leader.
Moral: Never hesitate to ask questions.
* * # # *
Colombia had great appeal for the Future Tour Leaders. There were many reasons, but a leading one was the great interest in tourism which has recently developed. Tourists have been visiting Colombia for many years, but the number hasn’t been great in comparison with other countries. Now, through its Empresa Colombiano de Turismo, which is the government tourist promotion agency, the country is making a vigorous bid for a larger share of the tourist movement.
Recognizing the potential inherent in a group of 23 persons who expect to be leaders of tourist groups. Empresa pulled out all the stops. The results of one-stop will illustrate:
On an evening tour, the group visited old Bogotá, riding through narrow 300-year old streets past venerable homes, each with its overhanging balcony. Originally, the relative opulence of the balcony was an index to the social and economic status of the family re-
siding behind it, and this is true to some extent, even today.
In front of one such home, the bus stopped and a group of serenaders appeared on the sidewalk; four of them, one with a banjo, and the others with guitars. They wore felt hats, of the fedora type fancied by both men and women in Colombia,, and over their shoulders they had ruanas. The ruana is a gray or brown blanket with a slit in the middle so the ruana can be let down over the head, rest on the shoulders and cover the back and chest.
The musicians stood on the sidewalk, serenading with traditional Colombian songs, while others of the host party boarded the bus and offered drinks of Agua Ardiente, a clear, highly potent liqueur which is most appropriately called “ardent water.” Boxes of comestibles were passed through the bus — there were slices of fried plantain (a cousin of the banana which is green when ripe, and cooked before serving), boiled potatoes, pop corn, and bite-sized chunks of roast pork. Then came arepas, which are thick fragrant pancakes of corn meal.
Most of all there was a spirit of friendly hospitality which warmed the heart even more than the fiery Agua Ardiente warmed the inner man and woman.
When no one could eat another crumb or swallow another drop, the musicians boarded the bus, and the party took off for the shoulder of Mount Monseratte to see the lights of Bogotá spread out beneath. Here the musicians started on dance tunes, and others taught the Future Tour Leaders the traditional Colombian dance steps.
#	=*	#	#	#
Moving on to Panama, the group saw the locks of the Panama Canal in operation, had an all day trip from Panama City to Colon and return, investigated the shops, and meanwhile, by committee action, managed the logistics of travel and in seminar sessions considered how this had been done, and how it could be done better.
*	*	*	■*	#
Costa Rica was a half-day stop only, but’ was a highlight of the tour because of the special program set up by El Instituto Costarricense de Turismo, the official Costa Rican tourist development agency. The agency’s Fred Derby arranged for a bus to meet the group at the airport and take them for a city and country sightseeing tour, culminating in luncheon at Ojo de Agua (Eye of Water) a country resort built around a natural spring which feeds a group of swimming pools famous throughout Costa Rica.
# * * *	#
Havana, Cuba was the last stop on the Tour for Tour Leaders. Havana’s busy Rancho Royeros Airport gave the transportation, baggage and clearance committees an excellent workout in the techniques of moving groups through large airports. That they were in a position to hand to the PAA representative who met the group, all the necessary papers immediately upon arriyal • ^ marshal their rtargcü in orueily lashion, to count the bags out of customs and into the
(Continued on page T-4)