BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
COLOMBIA	Page 7
from the coast means a week’s journey at best
•ing slow river steamer from Barranquilla ^ the Magdalena and then to the Capital; it it is made in less than three hours by plane. The journey from Buenaventura on the Pacific, over two mountain passes may be made in two days by train and automobile, or in 21/2 hours by plane. Cali is seventy minutes by air from Bogotá. Via AVIANCA, through-plane, one-stop service to Barranquilla from New York takes only twelve hours elapsed time as compared to five or six days by ship with a stopover. Non-stop flights from Miami to Barranquilla take only 5y2 hours.
The soil and climate of Colombia are especially favorable for agriculture which is the leading industry and occupation of 74 percent of the population. Industry employs 12 percent; commerce and trade, three percent; and mining and quarrying, one percent. Only two percent of the country is actually under cultivation however. In the coastal plains and interior valleys the important crops are coffee, sugar, bananas, cotton and tobacco. Other products include rice, indigo, oranges, pineapples, potatoes and a wide range of tropical fruits and vegetables. Wheat, barley and corn are grown in the Andean regions.
Coffee is the leading crop and the principal export accounting for 74 percent of the country’s overseas sales. Colombia ranks next to Brazil in the volume of coffee sold abroad, but is the world’s leading producer and seller
tthe mild variety. The best Medillin coffee, lied Excelso, commands the highest price the market. About 80 percent of the coffee crop exported is destined for the United States where it is blended with stronger grades. Coffee is grown under shade trees on mountain slopes generally 2,000 to 7,000 feet above sea level predominantly by small growers. A yield of 2i/2 pounds per bush is normal. Beans can be picked almost all year round giving “finca” operators more or less constant incomes. This prevents seasonal booms and slumps, enables transport services to work evenly and steadies the price by regulating the advent of coffee in the market. Wide control of the industry is exercised by the National Federation of Coffee growers, a cooperative association founded in 1927. The Federation also provides large central warehouses for storage.
Bananas are grown in nearly all regions of torrid and temperate zones in a great number of varieties, as they are one of the principal foods of the population. However, practically all production for export is grown in the Caribbean coastal districts especially around Santa Marta where there are 60,000 acres under cultivation.
The United Fruit Company owns about one-fifth of the banana estates, the rest being in private hands. In addition to the United States, the United Kingdom is a big importer ^^^)f Colombian bananas.
Commercial cotton production which has ^^^B.'en increasing in recent years is centered in ^^ne northeastern section of the country. It is grown on a small scale however in most parts of the country. The fiber is strong but mixed in quality, with superior and inferior varieties growing side by side. Cotton is used by hand spinners in country districts but the
Photo from Avianca
CALI — The Lorreda Bridge, with the cathedral in the background.
supply coming to market is not enough for the needs of Colombian mills.
Tobacco is raised on plateau land 9,000 to 10,000 feet above sea level where there is a black soil resembling that of Texas with a nearly constant temperature and sufficient rainfall. Cultivated for the most part for local use, very little raw tobacco is exported but cigars and cigarettes made from national tobacco are exported on a considerable scale.
Sugar is produced mainly on huge estates of from ten to twenty thousand acres but there are small plantations in many districts. In some areas the cane grows without irrigation and large sections of undeveloped land suitable for sugar cane are available. The industry is protected by a tariff.
Rice, a staple food, is cultivated on a small scale near Cartagena and in the western part of the country. There has been increasing production of coconuts along the Atlantic Coast. Mechanization in agriculture is making some progress with ploughing done on plateau lands, but in general, hand methods of cultivation (by machete and hoe) are used. Fertilizers are expensive and not used very much. One crop farming is widespread. Considerable acreage is irrigated, almost entirely by privately developed systems usually diversion canals.
Farge areas of Colombia are suitable for grazing and cattle raising has long been one of the principal industries. For the most part, pastoral activities are centered in the coastal plain, the interior valleys and the plateau regions. The llanos of eastern Colombia are an important potential grazing area but as yet have not been developed because of the lack of adequate transportation facilities. Exports of good quality hides and skins are important with the domestic tanning industry using mainly the inferior hides. Throughout most parts of the nation
there is a great demand for good strains of horses and mules for transport.
Forests are extensive and the range of products great. In addition to oak, pine and walnut they contain mahogany, rubber, chicle, balsam, dyewoods, resins and waxes and a variety of medicinal and other plants including sarsaparilla, vanilla, cinchona, castor and tonka beans. Little timber is exported as the nation has very few building woods. However, it does have several kinds suitable for fine furniture or interior house finishes. A few especially valuable hardwoods are used for making mechanical implements, dyes and tannic acid preparations. Rubber trees are plentiful along the eastern rivers.
Divi-divi, a Colombian plant which is used for tanning leather, is of very good quality and has commercial potentials. The tagua or vegetable ivory nut, used to make buttons, is an important natural product. There are groves of ivory nut palms in the lowlands along both coasts and on the banks of the Magdalena, the Atrato, the Sinu and other rivers. The nut when dried and cut looks like ivory and can be sawn, carved, polished and dyed.
Agave or sisal plants abound although there is little systematic cultivation on a large scale. Colombia produces enough fiber for her packing, sacks, rope and twine needs and for sandals used by the poorer classes. The fique fiber is widely used in making coffee sacks. It grows wild and the coffee bag industry is protected by a tariff on the importation of jute bags. Pita fiber, from a plant of the pineapple family, is used to make fishing nets. Hemp is being grown experimentally.
Colombia has immense areas of untitled land known as baldios. They are State lands which must revert to the nation. They are located all over the nation but the largest areas are along the coasts where ivory nut is