LETS FLY TO LATIN AMERICA!
FOREWORD
To animate and to personalize geography lessons, often dull and uninteresting, and to stir the imagination of the student, Pan American World Airways has prepared this imaginary trip in a Flying Clipper. The shrinking of the world by airplane and radio has made us neighbors of people of whom we know little. World-wide peace can be attained only when there is understanding among the world’s peoples, and this project is designed to develop attitudes of tolerance, friendship and appreciation toward our neighbors.
In the following lesson plan it is suggested that the class take an imaginary trip by Flying Clipper to Latin America. This plan immediately arouses the curiosity of the child; eyes light up and he is eager to know more.
Objectives
To awaken in the child an interest in the peoples of other countries as our neighbors on the earth we all inhabit.
2.	To direct the curiosity of the child toward the way of life of other nations and to their physical environment of geography and climate.
3.	To teach respect for other nations and an appreciation of their contributions towards civilization and culture.
4.	To learn cooperation through work on committees, among small groups, as well as with the entire class.
5.	To understand and use the globe, maps and charts.
6.	To encourage and develop the child’s understanding of the important knowledge of air travel and transportation in aiding closer international relations and better understanding between peoples.
7.	To convey an appreciation of the importance of aviation to United States welfare.
Motivation
A simple question or two will often start a lively discussion. Once the interest of the class is aroused, the main part of the lesson will almost take care of itself.
;sson will almost take care o± itself.
1. Has anyone here ever been up in a plane ? Do someone who has ?
you know
2.	Does any pupil have any relative who works for an aviation company?
3.	Has any pupil any foreign or United States air mail stamps ?
4.	Has any of you been to an airport?
5.	If it were possible, how many would like to take a trip by plane, perhaps even to fly to other countries?
6.	Of course such an actual trip by the class cannot take place, but we could go on an imaginary flight. It would be fun and almost as exciting. Would you like that?
Stress the fact that this trip will take a considerable amount of preparation, for who would consider a journey without first finding out a few facts such as—
1.	Where are we going?
2.	How will we go ?
3.	When will we leave?
4.	How long may we stay ?
5.	What clothes shall we need in each foreign country?
6.	What shall we bring back ?
7.	How much travel time are we saving by going by air?
Preparation
1. The Committee
Explain to the class the need for a committee to organize the collections of necessary information and materials. Suggest that three fellow students be selected by the class to head this committee.
The committee will meet with you to plan a tentative trip, to be submitted to and voted upon by the class.
You will outline certain things that the committee will be responsible for:
a.	Writing letters for information, travel folders, maps, prices, etc.
b.	The collection or sources of information about countries to be visited.
c.
The collection of pictures, articles of interest, stories and maps pertaining to the countries to be visited.
The committee will then select individual members of the class to assist them. Every child must be included as each one must feel that his job is an important part of the plan.
2. Planning the Trip
A. WHERE ARE WE GOING?
1. Plan your trip. Let us say the class has chosen to visit twelve leading capitals of Central and South America.
Mexico City, Mexico Guatemala, Guatemala Balboa, Canal Zone Quito, Equador Lima, Peru Santiago, Chile Buenos Aires, Argentina Montevideo, Uruguay Rio de Janeiro, Brazil Belem, Brazil Port of Spain, Trinidad San Juan, Puerto Rico
/Wi
r.
s *



1