We Discover Peru ... A Sample Lesson
This lesson is based on “The Wealth of the Other Americas” and other information supplied by Pan American World Airways; also on an article “The Pith of Peru” from The National Geographic Magazine, August 19U2.
After each committee has assembled a sufficient amount of material^ the idea is to present it in an interesting manner. Never distort the facts. Encourage the children to tell the story in their own way. Each child on the committee may give a certain portion of the lesson, i.e. history, geography, industry, etc., or it may be a joint affair with each member supplying some bit of information. A description of the land as seen from the air is made easier if a bas-relief map is consulted. The committee may read from notes. Pictures of art, buildings and points of interest should be shown and places pointed out on maps. If a child seems at a loss to know what to say, a hint from you, or a pertinent question from the class will help him along.
For further suggestions refer to the Outline under Preparation and Planning the Trip.
Describing the Land
Peru is a land of surprises! There are hot desert sands, great snow-capped mountains, fertile valleys and even jungles. As we fly along the dry sandy coast we see the Andes Mountains rising to the left. The Andes are very high, much taller in fact, than our own Rocky Mountains; they seem like a great wall dividing Peru in half. Over on the other side lie fertile valleys, the jungles and mighty rivers. Because of their height, the mountains keep the rain-clouds and the rivers from coming through to the Pacific. Only in the narrow valleys or near ranches irrigated by the melting mountain snows do we see any green.
We are told that if we lived in Calleo (seaport near Lima) and wished to visit Iquitos (a port in the eastern part of Peru), it would take about three weeks by mule over the Andes. By boat we would sail up the coast, through the Panama Canal, around the continent to the Amazon and up the river to Iquitos. A distance of 7,000 miles. Think of that! However, by plane it is only 625 miles. No wonder the Peruvians are interested in air travel.
Industry
On the way down the coast we fly over Talara, an oil port near the dry dusty oil fields. (Oil is one of Peru’s major products.) In the fertile irrigated valleys we see sugar plantations, tobacco, rice and cotton fields. (Peru is the second largest producer of cotton in Latin America.)
The Stewardess tells us some interesting facts about Peru. It is a storehouse of metals. Copper, silver, gold, lead and zinc are found in the high mountains. In order to mine the metals it was necessary to build the highest railroad in the world. At one place it is three miles high. Imagine! Other interesting products are rubber, linchong bark (for quinine) and guano. Guano is a valuable fertilizer. The cooling air which flows from the South Pole brings millions of fish to the coast of Peru and the islands off the coast. Birds living here eat the fish and deposit a deep layer of guano, which is collected and used.
History of the Land
As we fly towards Lima we discuss the history of Peru. The ancient Incas were perhaps the oldest cultured race in the Western Hemisphere. Under the great Emperor Inca roads were built, large cities developed and great temples rose from the plateaux. At Cuzco (their capital) one can see the ruins of these temples today.
In 1535 along came a few Spaniards, led by Francisco Pi-zarro (frahn-sees-koo, pee-sah-rro) who defeated the Indians, founded Lima (the modern capital). Spain ruled Peru for 300 years. About 125 years ago the Peruvians revolted, because they wanted to rule themselves, and so the Republic of Peru was born.
Air Transportation
We speak of the future of Peru, how aviation is helping to develop many industries. Peru is served by Pan American-Grace Airways, an affiliate of Pan American World Airways. There are also domestic airlines which provide transportation facilities.
A Sight-Seeing Trip in and Around Lima
At last we arrive at the Limatambo Airport. From here we ride by car into Lima, “The City of Kings.” It takes about twenty minutes.
Excited and happy we drive along the broad avenue into the Plaza San Martin. The square is like a park. In the center is a statue of General San Martin on his horse. Our hotel, “The Bolivar,” faces the square. Across the park is the United States Embassy with its American Flag. Look, over there on the corner a movie theater, “The Metro.” We giggle—it’s almost like home.
Early the next morning we are ready to go. It’s a bit chilly, but later on in the day it will grow very warm. We go first to the Plaza Mayor. Here is the cathedral with its twin towers. Across the Plaza is the old palace of the Viceroys—it is used today for government offices, and soldiers in bright red uniforms guard the doors.
We board a street car and go to the Plaza Bolivar. We see the beautiful Palace of the Peruvian Congress. Here in the Senate Chambers the Senators register their votes simply by touching an electric button on their desks. In a nearby museum we see the first airplane to fly over the Alps in Europe. Jorge Chares, the pilot of this plane, was a Peruvian.
On our ride around the city we see San Marco University (founded nearly a hundred years before Harvard). On the streets we see many people—women with market baskets filled with strange fruits, vegetables and flowers, students, servant girls, their hair in two braids tied with red ribbon, ice cream peddlers with bicycle carts, fashionable ladies, and Indians with their baskets. We see chocolate factories with crowds of people at the door waiting to buy chocolate. Most every one speaks Spanish, though the Indians still speak their own language. We find the people very polite, helpful and refined. We decide that it would be nice to be real friends with a Peruvian family.
We go to the shopping center called Giron Union. In the stores we see blankets and other things made from the fleece of the vicuna, llama rugs, beautiful textiles woven by the Indians and lovely silver ornaments and jewelry designed by craftsmen.
For lunch we stop at a restaurant that specializes in sea food. It is hard to choose between Camarones (shrimps) and Choros a la Mariners (a delicious fish soup).
In the afternoon we go by bus (3c) to Miraflores, a suburb of Lima, about three miles away. Miraflores (Behold the Flowers) is beautiful and well-named. We enjoy driving along the tree-lined boulevards. There are many pretty Spanish type houses with flowers climbing over the walls. We see lovely streets shaded by pepper and flame trees, and h and there are little shrines set into the walls.
We would like to stay longer in this beautiful place, but must return to our hotel and rest before we continue our trip in our. Pan American Clipper. We feel a little sad to leave Peru, as there is so much that we haven’t seen. Perhaps we may return someday and continue our sight-seeing.