Thirty Questions
These questions were prepared not only to show the factual knowledge gained by the child, but to encourage him to use his judgment in questions where no definite answer is required. Also by using comparisons with things he is
familiar with, to increase the other nations and peoples.
Factual Questions
1.	What two languages are generally spoken in Latin America ?
2.	Where is the largest river? Trace it on the globe.
3.	Name the oldest civilizations in the Americas.
4.	Which is the sunny side of the house south of the Tropic of Capricorn?
5.	Where is the highest railroad in the world? Find it on a globe or map.
6.	What is the leading religion in Latin America?
7.	From what country do we get a great deal of sugar?
8.	What important products come from the mines ? The forests? The land?
9.	What animals are still used as beasts of burden?
10.	Which is the largest country? The smallest?
Thought Provoking Questions
1.	Was the trip enjoyed?
2.	Would you like to plan another trip?
3.	If you could actually fly to Latin America, which place would you most like to visit? Why?
4.	Why is air travel and air express of such vital importance to Latin America ?
5.	Why do you think the airplane will bring about a better understanding between North and South America?
6.	Would you like to go to school in South America? Do you think the schools are good? What subjects are taught ?
7.	What do you know about the Pan-American Conferences ? Do they help to cultivate friendship between the United States and Latin America?
8.	Tell about the people of Latin America.
a.	Races.
b.	Way of life.
sense of relationship between
9.	Are the people of Latin America friendly among themselves ?
10.	In what way has Pan-Americanism served as a model for the UNITED NATIONS ?
Questions of Comparison
1.	Compare the climate of South America with North America. Why is it different? What influence does it have on the people?
2.	How do the farms in South America compare with those in the United States? Do as many people own farms in Latin America as in our country?
3.	Compare the forests of South America with our forests. Do the same kind of trees grow on both continents? Where would you be apt to see a banana tree in this country ?
4.	Compare the Andes Mountains with the Rocky Mountains, or with other mountains that you know about.
5.	Tell about Latin American home life, of Spanish tradition, of the Indians. Explain the difference in home life in this country.
6.	Tell about the houses in South America. Compare with the United States.
7.	Compare amusements and games of Latin America with those you are familiar with. Tell about the movies on both continents.
8.	Politeness and dignity are important qualities of the Latin Americans. How do they compare with our country? Do you think it would be an improvement if we were a little more polite and dignified ?
9.	Compare travel in the days before the coming of the airplane to South America with modern travel. At one time troops were sent by boat from Callao, Peru, to Iquitos in the interior of Peru. Trace the route on the globe. Why did they go that way? How would they go today ?
10.	How does the standard of living among the majority of Latin Americans compare with that of our own people?
NOTICE—Special Teaching Aids
Pan American World Airways will send on request, without charge, teaching materials on Latin America. Please address your request to the
Educational Department,
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS.
28-19 Bridge Plaza North,
Long Island City 1, New York.