Pan Am ehfcuv
4 Australia and New Zealand World Airways Teacher
CUSCUS—The fauna of Australia include many strange creatures, of which the one best known in the United States is, of course, the kangaroo. One whose name is not so well known is the cuscus, and the little fellow in this picture is especially strange for he is an albino cuscus. He lives in the Sir Colin MacKenzie Sanctuary.
Australia is one of the newest countries in the world, yet the continent itself is one of the oldest. Over a hundred and sixty years ago, it was an empty land, inhabited by only a few hundred thousand aborigines, living about the same way they did in the Stone Age. No less than three nations had the opportunity to take possession of Australia before England stepped in, with hesitant feet, to claim this continent. Spain, Portugal and the Dutch all preceded England in the discovery and exploration of Australia, but for various reasons these nations did not claim or settle the country. Abel Tasman sailed along Australia’s coastline in 1642. When Tasman ventured ashore, he named this new island Van Diemen’s Land. This ceremony performed, he then headed East, coming upon another strange land after a nine-days voyage. He named this new discovery New Zealand. It was Tasman’s belief that Van Diemen’s Land and New Zealand were separated by a narrow passage. Accordingly he gave his own name to that strait, which still is known as the Tasman Sea.
Captain James Cook, in 1770 explored the east coast and called it New South Wales. He landed at Botany Bay and claimed Australia as a British possession.
January 26, 1788 is really Australia’s birthday. On that day Arthur Phillip, with about 1,000 men, established the first real settlement of what is now the great city of Sydney. It was the same year in which the tj. S. Constitution was ratified by the States.
In a left-handed way, the United States had something to do with the settlement of Australia. As you may remember, England in the early days used to send some of its convicts to America. But after the colonies had declared their independence, the British had to find some other place to send convicts
from their own crowded jails. Nearly half of the first group to land on the new continent were prisoners-—men who were on the wrong side in politics, or had got into debt, or tangled with the harsh laws of the time in some other way. All told, in the first 40 or 50 years of the settlement of Australia, England shipped over 160,000 so-called convicts, but the traffic was stopped by 1868.
For 50 years, the colonies of New South Wales (the first settlement, around Sydney) stayed close to that area, except for a few expeditions by boat along the coast line. The Blue Mountains, behind Sydney, kept the settler from penetrating into the interior of the continent, until in 1813, three pioneers, seeking new pasture for their growing herds, found a pass over the range and discovered the grasslands on the other side. Gradually, in the next 60 years, a small group of inquisitive, courageous men, explored the vast continent—men like our own Lewis and Clark who helped open up the West.
In the early days the population grew slowly. Then a big gold strike was made in the Bathurst District of New South Wales. Not long after that other gold fields were found—in Ballarat and at the famous “Golden Mile” in Kalgoorlie in western Australia where miners could pick large chunks of gold off the side of a hill. These successive gold rushes brought thousands to the continent and the population doubled in about 7 years.
The Blackfellows
. There is one thing about Australia which differentiates it from all other parts of the earth. And that is its completely unique, indigenous native life—its Stone Age men and animals. If you have any curiosity at all about what your remote ancestors of the Stone Age were like, you can see them living any day of the week in northern Aus-
tralia. Although today most of them are living in compounds (something like our own Indian reservations), their minds, habits and customs closely approximate those of the Neolithic men who lived around the Mediterranean region before the dawn of history. According to anthropologists, the blackfellows comprise by far the most primitive race of man on earth today. It can be said that they are “very backward”, for it has been noted that it is next to impossible for this antique race to adopt the ways of civilization without disaster. Of course, there are always exceptions.
When born, children are quite light; but soon they darken—all of them; that is, but the palms of their hands. The blackfellows seem to be about the size of the average white man, with long heads, long legs, long arms, and long hands. As is the case with most primitive men, the nose* is flat, the brow beetling, the eyes deep set, and the hair-line low. Lips are full. They are all heavily tattooed. The tattooing is done by making incisions into the flesh, then rubbing clay or ashes into the wounds. That leaves a ridged scar for life.
The Australian aborigines are perhaps best known abroad for their invention of the weapon which describes a curve when thrown—the boomerang. Those you may have seen demonstrated in the United States will come back to the thrower, after making a complete circuit through the air. These are but toys to the aborigines.
The boomerang used in hunting or fighting is longer than the toy or “playabout” boomerang, less curved, and has straight ends. It won’t come back to the thrower, nor does he want it to do so. Its business is to go straight for a distance, then “break” suddenly around the edge of a cliff or a bush to nail a bird or animal. Or, it may be used in fighting to get around shields, or barricades. Fighting boomerangs may be a yard long, and are nearly always totemized with mystical symbols carved or inlaid in the wood. These missiles are deadly weapons. They have been known to shear through a human body at a distance of 80 yards.
Aborigines toss the toy boomerang around with a facility which would completely win over a vaudeville audience. They can hurl their curved sticks a hundred yards out and back—causing them to figure-eight, loop-the-loop, come to a virtual standstill in the air, and then float lazily back to the hurler.
Sparkling Cities
Australia is a country of city dwellers. It is in the principal cities where the vast proportion of the population lives. We shall mention therefore those which you, as a traveler, may visit.
Some Australians compare Sydney with San Francisco. Visitors usually think of Los Angeles instead. Like Los Angeles Sydney is newer, brighter, younger, faster and gayer than San Francisco. Its harbor is as a harbor should be—with a mile-wide entrance, a tremendous bay almost encircled by the city, a number of tranquil sea-arms, scores of boats of all sorts, and at night a myriad of blinking lights, giving the visitor the feeling of having been transported up into the Milky Way. Sydney’s beaches are indeed magnificent—Bondi especially.