Pan Amerícan
World A/RWAYS TEACHER Australia and New Zealand 7
AGRICULTURE AND INDUSTRY
by Lou A.
AUSTRALIA
Australia is the smallest continent and the largest island in the world. Inside Australia you could squeeze about 32 United Kingdoms, 24 Norways, 28 New Zealands, 4 Mexicos or 4 Indonesias. The overall area of the United States is greater, but excluding the area covered by our Great Lakes, it is slightly smaller than Australia. On its extreme southwest the continent is 9,550 miles by sea from London, 4,710 miles from Cape Town and 3,120 miles from Colombo. Its „east coast lies 6,590 sea miles from San.Francisco. The northern tip of the continent is 1,900 miles from Singapore.
Due to the great distances both between Australia and principal cities of the world and between their own cities, the Australians are one of the most airminded peoples on earth. Visitors do well to take this cue. Shipping to the continent is irregular and takes nearly five weeks from New York. In contrast, the same trip by Pan American Clipper takes but 38 hours, elapsed time with stops at Honolulu, Canton Island, and Fiji Island.
There are no cross-country rivers. There is one trans-continental railroad, but travel by train necessitates frequent changes as track gauges are not uniform. For example, in traveling between Perth on the southwestern coast and Cairns on the northeastern coast, five changes must be made. There is even a gauge break between Sydney and Melbourne, the country’s two largest cities. Travel time by train between the two points takes 16 hours and costs about $8 in United States currency. Travel time by ship between the two cities, along the coast, takes two days and costs a little more than $11. By air, the same trip takes a little less than two hours and a half and costs a few cents under $11.
Australia is divided into six states which federated to form the Commonwealth of Australia. A special area was set aside, like the District of Columbia, for a capital. The capital city, Canberra, was built on an open plain in the Australian tablelands midway between Sydney and Melbourne about 90 miles from the coast. It was designed by an American architect, Walter Burley Griffan, who won the honor in world-wide competition.
New South Wales
Primary industries have been the main factor in the economic development of the state of New South Wales. Its vast western plains supply the largest percentage of Australia’s wool; its coastal belt is the richest dairy land on the continent; and its western mountain slopes produce the bulk of the nation’s wheat. Sheep grazing is the State’s most profitable industry, and one of its oldest. Sheep were brought with the first settlers, but they did not flourish until some years later when an army officer Captain John Macarthur, who was interested in agriculture set up the foundation of what is today Australia’s main source of wealth.
Today there are more than 115,000,000 sheep on the continent, and wool is one of
Phillips
the nation’s most important exports. The importance of Australian wool to the extensive textile industry in the United States is reflected in the substantial demand by American buyers. After the beginning of the 1950-51 wool season in Australia there was a marked increase in the rate of American buying, and from its position as the fourth largest buyer of Australian wool during the
1949-	50 season, America rose to become Australia’s second best customer during
1950-	51.
Australia’s economy is essentially linked with the wool industry. It was mainly owing to the greatly increased income from wool exports that the nation was able to achieve a favorable balance of trade during 1950-51 which was considerably in excess of that of any previous period. Sales of wool to the United Kingdom, and to the Continent of Europe, also made a substantial contribution to Australian funds in London, while the unusually high sales to the United States brought $300,000,000 to the sterling area pool.
Wheat growing is the most extensive of the agricultural industries of New South Wales. Although the output is not comparable to that of such a wheat state as Kansas, enough grain is grown to provide a large export trade. The State has a wide variation in soil and climate, from sub-tropical districts to cold slopes of the Australian Alps.
A great variety of fruit is grown including citrus and stone varieties, apples, pears, figs, grapes, bananas and pineapples. Pioneer secondary industries such as flour milling, brickmaking and flax weaving also thrive. The heavy industry of New South Wales, in the great coal centers of Newcastle and
Port Kembla, produce iron and steel of high quality at what is claimed to be the cheapest cost in the world. The by-products of the steel and iron industry include everything from railroad rolling stock to refrigerators and account for at least 40% of the State’s production. Other heavy industries provide coke, cement, building materials, glass and pottery, chemicals, paint, dyes and oils.
Victoria
Victoria’s primary industrial output has been increased greatly by the use of irrigation. Rich new settlements based on intensive cultivation have been added steadily to the patchwork of irrigated lands developed along the Murray River and in adjoining areas. Irrigated districts now cover over two million acres with over 700,000 under active cultivation. The irrigation settlements also form one of the principal tourist areas of the country. Hand in hand with the extension of irrigation has gone the construction of increased water storage. Most spectacular is the great Eildon Dam, built by an American contractor, which creates a 2,350,-000 acre-feet water storage reservoir. In all there are over thirty-five large reservoirs in Victoria with over 225 subsidiary reservoirs and service basins. Water is conveyed by 15,000 miles of channels and 1,130 miles of pipelines.
Victoria’s subsoil has yielded tremendous amounts of gold in the past. Many of California’s Forty-niners were attracted to these diggings. After the gold rushes were over, coal assumed an important place in the mineral picture. At Yallourn, 88 miles east of Melbourne, the State Electricity Commission conducts a vast undertaking of coal mining that is one of the outstanding industrial developments of the nation. From an open cut about 200 feet deep, over 6,000,000 tons of brown coal is taken annu-
AUSTRALIAN MERINO—This fellow is a champion 18-month-old ram, owned by an Australian wool grower. His fleece is dense, and the staples are long, two characteristics which have helped Australia to become a leader in the production of wool.