Pan American
2 Australia and New Zealand IVORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Clipper flights to the fascinating lands “down under” the Equator can be made from any of the Pacific Coast’s three “gateway” cities—San Francisco, Los Angeles, or the Seattle-Portland area of the Pacific Northwest.
Let’s assume that we are leaving from San Francisco. We board the Clipper at the International Airport 14 miles south of the colorful city by the Golden Gate. Takeoff time is 1:00 a.m., but even at this hour a Clipper departure is a gay event, with Hawaiian music flooding the terminal, which is thronged with tourists, business people, service personnel and friends and relatives who have come to wish them bon voyage.
Our airplane is a Strato Clipper, a four-engine, double-deck giant capable of carrying more than 80 passengers. For added comfort, the big aircraft is equipped with Sleeperette seats, which allow the passengers to stretch out full-length during overnight flights.
Nine-and-a-half hours after takeoff and after a non-stop flight of 2395 miles, the Clipper approaches Honolulu. Below are the green cane and pineapple fields and the white beaches of Oahu Island. From the Honolulu airport, we drive through the bustling streets of the territorial capital to the famed Waikiki area, with its beach lined with luxurious hotels. The beach itself offers many attractions—sun bathing, swimming, surfboard riding and thrilling trips through the surf in outrigger canoes. And there are numerous motor tours which can be taken to points of interest on the island.
Nineteen hundred miles southwest of Honolulu is Canton Island, a coral atoll in the Phoenix group. Here 14 years ago Pan American constructed a base and here, after a hour flight from Hawaii, our Clipper stops for about an hour to refuel.
A few hours out of Canton Island, the Clipper crosses the International Date Line and Tuesday suddenly becomes Wednesday.
Five hours—and 1270 miles—south of Canton, we land at Nandi Airport and find ourselves in Fiji—island area that is truly South Pacific in its color and way of life. The policeman at the airport is like no policeman anywhere else on earth—a tall man with a mop of fuzzy hair and a flashing
smile whose costume consists of a military jacket and a gleaming white skirt, or sulu, which ends at the knees of his bare legs. Fiji is unlike any other place we will see on our tour—a British Crown Colony with a colorful and interesting mixture of races; Fijian, Indian, European and mixtures of the Polynesian and Melanesian strains, where it is easy to come into personal contact with native peoples living a primitive and happy way of life.
Nandi is located on Vitu Levu, largest of Fiji’s 320 islands. Suva, the capital, is on the same island, a distance of 123 miles by road from the airport. This same road circles Vitu Levu, and a motor trip around the island provides a constantly changing vista of curving beaches, jungle-clad mountains, tall fields of cane, and thatched native huts, or burus. The colors are truly kaleidoscopic, ranging from the deep blue and white foam of the sea to the lush tropic green of the jungle, splashed with brilliant red tulip trees and the pastel shades of hibiscus, and marked by frequent waterfalls tumbling down the mountain slopes.
At Fiji, Pan American’s South Pacific routes divide—one leg leading to Australia, the other to New Zealand.
The Australia-bound Clipper—the same big Boeing on which we have traveled more than 5500 miles from San Francisco—leaves Nandi shortly before midnight and early the next morning, after a 3170-mile hop, is over Sydney, Australia’s largest and most cosmopolitan city. Below is the harbor, with its 152 miles of shoreline and its famous single-span bridge which links the city with its northern suburbs.
Australia has been described by James A. Afichener as “a land of untold capacities.” It is also a vast and sprawling continent which probably offers the visitor more varied attractions than any other place in the world. At least half the population is centered in six cities, all but one of them located on the sea, but the real Australia lies beyond these centers of population. The continent has every type of climate, ranging from the arid plains of Central Australia to tropical Tasmania. It has its own winter sports areas, its tremendous stock ranges, its startling flora and fauna—and in the Great Barrier Reef, which extends for more than 1200 miles along the Queensland
coast, one of the marine wonders of the world. A few years ago, the Reef could be reached only by the most adventurous, but today there are a number of comfortable resorts located both on the continental islands and on the true coral islands which make up the outer reef.
Volumes could be written about Australia —and weeks or even months might be spent there without seeing everything. So' let’s fly back to Nandi and head southward to New Zealand.
Auckland, northernmost port, lies 1324 miles south of Fiji and the flight takes about seven hours. The first impression the traveler has when he leaves the Clipper at the Auckland airport is that this is a green land, green not only in its myriad acres of crops and pasture land, but green in the verdure that climbs high on the ever present hills, up toward the towering, snow-clad peaks.
The source of this greenness is not hard to find, for the face of the land is dotted with lakes and rivers, many of them containing trout of unequalled size. Second striking characteristic of the two main islands—North Island and South Island— which extend over 1000 miles of latitude, is the mountainous nature of the country. Along the length of South Island, for example, runs the massive chain of Southern Alps which has 17 peaks more than 10,000 feet high and one—Mount Cook—which towers 12,349 feet above sea level.
Still another notable feature is the wealth of thermal activity. On North Island there is a belt 20 miles wide and 150 miles long which contains one of the greatest groups of geysers in the world, plus boiling pools, hot waterfalls, steam blow holes, mud volcanoes and multi-colored earth.
Equally interesting are the islands’ original inhabitants—the Maoris. Here we find a noble type of Polynesian, intelligent, handsome and sturdy. He has advanced from Stone Age savagery to modern civilization in about one hundred years. Despite the fact that he has taken his place alongside New Zealand’s European population in cultural equality—a fact about which New Zealanders are very proud—the Maori has retained much of his ancient culture and the products of his handicraft are highly prized as souvenirs.