Pan American
World Airways TEACHER Australia and New Zealand 9
(Photo from Jawing Galloway, N. 'L.)
FLAX—An important crop in New Zealand is flax, for production of linen. This photo, from the Manawater District, illustrates bleaching of flax in the held.
seventh in the list of world flock owners and fourth among world producers.
The Dominion supplies one-fourth of the world’s wool, making it one of the world’s largest exporters, exceeded only by Australia and Argentina. Less than 5% of the wool produced is absorbed in domestic woolen mills. The United Kingdom is the chief buyer and acts as distributor reselling one-third to Europe and North America.
In 1882 the first successful cargo of frozen mutton was sent to England. With refrigeration, the profits of selling meat and dairy products abroad became surer and the demand for land in the country increased. More and more entered farming and the country gradually assumed its present character of a land of small or moderate sized farmers.
New Zealand’s largest industrial plants are freezing works. Meat is frozen at the works and taken in specially insulated vans to wharfs and then to ship freezing chambers. The preponderance of lamb occurs because beef is somewhat spoiled by freezing and will keep fresh for a lesser time than lamb when chilled. New Zealand is the world’s largest exporter of lamb and mutton with almost all of it going to the United Kingdom.
During the last twenty-five years dairying-lias become one of the chief industries of New Zealand. In the beginning experts from Denmark and Canada were called on for advice on cheese and butter-making and grading with the result that today the Dominion is second only to Denmark in cheese production and the world’s largest exporter of butter. Today every phase of dairy production and factory processing is closely supervised resulting in uniform high quality products.
Since the 1930’s growing of pigs for export of chilled and frozen pork and bacon has increased with about 80% going to the United Kingdom. Pigs are raised almost entirely on dairy farms as they are used to convert separated milk, buttermilk and whey into marketable products.
Of New Zealand grains, wheat is the most important. Other crops include maize, oats (used for the large racing industry), and barley. The nation is practically self-sufficient in fruit and vegetables such as apples, pears, potatoes, and citrus fruits. Almost two-fifths of the apple crop is exported. During the recent war, vegetable and fruit dehydration and canning developed, sparked by the need to feed the Pacific Armed Forces of the Allies.
Manufacturing and Mining
Manufacturing in New Zealand has developed during the last thirty years until today it accounts for about 20% of the working population. The most important manufacturing in the Dominion is not true manufacturing but a by-product of farming such as meat freezing and preserving, butter making, condensed milk preparation, sawmilling, light and power. All steel for heavy industry as well as many manufactured products must be imported from Great Britain and Australia. However New Zealand agricultural implements and machinery are much in demand in Australia, South Africa and South America. Other manufactured products produced in the Dominion ancillary to agricultural and pastoral industries are bar-
rels, rope, flax, and packs for shipping wool. Production of consumer products includes cracker, paint, varnish, furniture, soap and candle factories.
Coal is the leading mineral and although supply is limited there is enough for domestic needs for a good many years. Certain types are imported from Australia however. With moderate coal supplies and no oil, the numerous swift rivers, heavy rain, high altitude lakes and waterfalls assume a great value as a potential source of hydroelectric power in addition to their scenic attractiveness. Electricity is a major factor in the national economy and an important impetus in the dairy industry. Its low cost means less farm drudgery as it is most important for farm equipment, milking machines, cream separators, shearing machines, milking sheds and household worksavers. Electricity is available to 93% of the population making New Zealand si-xth in electrical consumption in the world.
Gold is the second most important mineral. Its importance however should be measured by its influence on history rather than by the value of actual bullion available. During the gold rush days of the 1860’s thousands of prospectors who came to New Zealand in search of the precious metal stayed to farm and settle. Few other minerals are mined on a commercial scale although there are small deposits of iron, mercury, manganese ore, tungsten, sulphur and asbestos.
New Zealand And The World
Actually New Zealand’s primary industries have been developed for overseas markets, particularly thje United Kingdom, and economic stability depends upon export trade in these commodities. Butter, cheese, frozen meat and wool represent over 90% of the total annual value of the Dominion’s foreign trade with products of mines, fish-
eries, forests and agriculture accounting for most of the balance. Manufactures represent less than 2% of the total. In fact, New Zealand is said to exist in world markets only by virtue of its agricultural produce.
Although the total value of New Zealand’s commodity trade is not large in comparison to many other countries, it, is the highest in the world on a per-capita basis. The United Kingdom normally absorbs over 80% of its exports and provides about 50% of its imports. Australia ranks next to the United Kingdom among British countries.
Wool is the only major New Zealand product finding important markets apart from the United Kingdom which takes about two-fifths of the total export volume. France, Belgium, Australia, United States, Canada, and the Netherlands buy the remainder. Some 65% of the country’s sheep skins are imported by the United States. In ordinary years, the United States sells in the vicinity of $40,000,000 worth of goods to New Zealand which is about 15% of its total purchases from abroad. Practically every type of American product is well and favorably known in the country with autos, timber, petroleum and allied products, radio and building material heading the list.
In general, apart from the United Kingdom, New Zealand buys more from other countries than she sells to them. The resulting debit balances are ultimately met from the Dominion’s sterling exchange funds held in London and its trade is concentrated mainly within imperial boundaries. A British preference tariff is applied to goods which are the produce or manufacture of all countries forming a part of the British Commonwealth while a general tariff rate is applied against products of all other countries.