Pah Am erica h
WORLD Airways TEACHER Australia and New Zealand 5
SHRINE OF REMEMBRANCE—This war memorial may be seen in Melbourne, Australia. The sentry wears the typical Australian soldier’s bat, with one side tipped up and held in place with an insignia clip.
Its population is over 1,300,000, the third in the entire British Empire. It is Australia’s main shipping port and business center, and the leading Australian airport. By PAA you can get there in 38 hours from San Francisco.
' Buildings in Sydney are limited to a height of 150 feet. Streets wind about. Gardens are profuse—as many as those in Auckland, New Zealand—which is probably the world’s most thoroughly gardened city. Sydney’s congested downtown area is similar to that of London. The stream of clerks, business men and others who swarm into Castlereagh, Pitt, George, and Elizabeth streets could be transposed with little change in aspect to the Strand or Piccadilly. Its more outstanding buildings are the Town Hall, the Queen Victoria Markets, the Anglican Cathedral of St. Andrew, the Roman Catholic Cathedral of St. Mary’s, one of the finest Gothic structures in the country, and the University, composed of a group of orthodox-style colleges grouped geometrically on a spacious campus.
Melbourne is a beautiful city, a stately city. Its atmosphere and manner may remind you of Philadelphia, although Melbourne is newer and brighter. Parks and boulevards succeed one another with geometrical regularity, Streets are wide and straight. Buildings are new and neat. Shops modern and well stocked. On Sunday not a creature is stirring. Melbourne’s population of more than a million makes her the second largest city in Australia, and the ninth in the British Empire. (Melba, the great opera singer, was born here). Melbourne offers more theatres and theatrical enterprises than any other city in the Commonwealth. The city’s proud landmarks are the St. Patrick’s Cathedral and Parliament House, and the Technological Museum. Its “Wall Street” centers in Collins Street West, and Queen Street. Melbourne offers good beaches and excellent race courses.
There are of course other important cities. Brisbane, about 200 miles north of Sydney, is definitely the Australian city with the most promising future. It is full of hustlers. It seems more American even than Sydney. Its present population is over 300,000.
Darwin is rather hot. During World War II, it was virtually destroyed by Japanese bombings.
Canberra, a town of about 15,000 inhabitants, is the capital of all Australia. Because of an ancient dispute between Sydney and Melbourne as to which should become the capital city of Australia, it was finally decided that an entirely new city should be created for the country’s seat of government. So Canberra came into being. In 1920, Edward Windsor, then Prince of Wales, laid the cornerstone of the Capital. On May 9, 1927, the late King George VI, then Duke of York, officially opened the Federal Parliament house. Today Canberra is called the “city of flowers”. Everywhere you can see gardens and flowers. In front of Parliament House, for instance, one sees thousands of tulips; and on the 168-acre grounds surrounding this building are 17,000 trees. No less than 20,000 rose trees grow along a half-mile stretch of Commonwealth Avenue. In November they blossom out into a mass of
color. Elm, juniper, eucalyptus, cedar, poplar, oak and other varieties of trees line other streets. As a garden spot, few cities can rival Canberra.
Cities in Bloom
Each of New Zealand’s four principal cities points proudly to its pet feature : Auckland the harbor; Wellington the seat of government ; Christchurch the cathedral ; Dunedin the university. Auckland, chief port as well as biggest metropolis, chokes the North Island’s narrowest isthmus. It continues to grow, spilling over, sprawling out wherever it can. To1 see the city’s expansion, you may climb Mount Eden, an extinct volcano in its backyard. In every direction suburban communities mushroom like the industries increasing to supply them. More than 200,000 people live in this busy commercial city. Its tall buildings, beautiful parks and gardens, and its splendid harbor, paradise for yacht and motor-boat owners, are only a few of the many attractions of the city.
Wellington, oldest and second largest city, became New Zealand’s capital at the age of 25. To this near-geographical center and hub of transport, the seat of government moved in 1865 from Auckland. And the marble solidity of Parliament House looks as if it is there to stay. The 20,000-acre hill-girt harbor takes ships of all sizes and flags to the city’s heart. It is a prosperous, bustling city of more than 154,000 inhabitants. It occupies a commanding position, being practically in the center of New Zealand and separated only by the narrow waters of Cook Strait from the South Island. It has fine theatres, hotels, museums and parks.
From Wellington to Christchurch is a matter of hours. Christchurch is known as
the most English of New Zealand’s cities. The beautiful River Avon which winds through it is lined with willows and oaks, and the fine parks and gardens are all reminiscent of England. The stately Cathedral overlooking the busy square, and the fine Canterbury College buildings add still further to this impression. It has some 175,000 people and nearly as many bicycles which make Christchurch .the largest and most traffic-hazardous of South Island’s cities.
Dunedin impresses the visitor with the solid architecture of its many fine buildings; its parks and gardens are a source of pleasure all throughout the year. The Cathedral and the University are symbols of the spirit of the city.
Strictly their Own
New Zealand as well as Australia are in the southern hemisphere; the seasons therefore are the opposite of ours. It is winter from June to August and summer from December to February. Christmas and New Year are summer holidays, with Easter in the Fall. And to confuse you a little more, the southern part of the two countries is colder than the northern. The International Date Line runs north and south through the Pacific. (See map on page 4.) Australia and New Zealand are on the left-hand side. Thus when it is today in Australia, for instance, it is yesterday in the United States. When you are in Sydney, you are 18 hours ahead of San Francisco time. In other words, when it is noon on Wednesday in Sydney, it is 6 p.m. on Tuesday in San Francisco and 9 p.m. in New York.
Strange animals can be found also in both countries. In New Zealand you will see the most unbirdlike of birds, the tailless, wingless kiwi. The kiwi rests on its ridicu-