12 Australia and New Zealand
6.	It is said that the mountain peaks of New Zealand rival those of what country?
7.	To what country is the climate of New Zealand compared?
8.	What are the 2 most important minerals?
9.	Why is New Zealand called one of the great metal producing countries of the world?
10.	For what are Batlarat, Bendigo, Port Jackson, Albany, New Castle and Parramatta noted?
11.	Who popularized game fishing in New Zealand?
12.	Name the 2 main islands of New Zealand.
13.	Tell something about the original inhabitants of New Zealand.
14.	What rights have the Maoris at present?
VIII. General:
1.	How does this continent compare in size with the other continents?
2.	Why is this referred to as “the land down under?”
3.	Why is it called “the sunshine continent?”
4.	What does “Anzac” mean?
5.	How far apart are Australia and New Zealand?
6.	What sea separates Australia and New Zealand?
7.	What is a “boomerang?”
8.	What is the “smallest continent and largest island in the world”?
9.	What is the second largest city in the British Commonwealth?
10.	Which five American cities are larger than the city named above?
11.	Is it cooler in the Southern or Northern part of these countries?
12.	How far ahead of New York time are they? Of San Francisco time?
13.	Why is it said that “men of the U. S. Submarine fleet know the port of Fremantle well”?
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg Audio-Visual Consultant
Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
AUSTRALIA Motion Pictures
Available from Australian News and Information Bureau, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
Australia Today—20 min. sound, color.
The standard informational film on Australia, giving an up-to-date overall picture of the island continent—its beaches, mountains and coral reefs ; stone age aborigines ; its unique animals, birds and flowers. Australia’s economy is shown, from the sheep and cattle ranches, wheat farms and orchards to the mines and factories of the great industrial cities. The way of life of the Australian people is revealed in glimpses of homes, schools and sport fields.
Advance Australia—20 min., sound,
B & W.
A general film about Australia, covering the country’s geography, history, industries, cities, science, culture and sports.
Place for a Village—10 min., sound,
B & W.
A film about the beautiful city of Melbourne, capital of Victoria and Australia’s second city.
School in the Mailbox—18 min., sound,
B & W.
Shows how the children of Australia’s isolated outback are educated by correspondence from elementary to high school stand-
Pa/v American
Wo rio Airways Teacher
ards. Mails are carried by train, automobile, buggy, bicycle, camel, and even airplane.
A Man and His Dog—10 min., sound,
B & W.
Story of a kelpie, showing how patient training develops a wild young puppy into a trustworthy sheepdog, able to round up a mob of 1,000 sheep or more with only a distant whistle from his master to guide him.
Australian Football—10 min., sound,
B & W.
This film explains in detail the finer points of the national game of football, one of the fastest and most grueling games in the world.
The Pearlers—IS min., sound, B & W.
The story of the men who operated the pearling luggers of northern Australia; source of most of the world’s mother-of-pearl shell.
Isle of Bounty—10 min., sound, B & W.
Describes the life of descendants of “Bounty” mutineers now living on Norfolk Island.
No Strangers Here—SS min., sound,
B & W.
The story of a family of European migrants, and their settling into a new life in Australia.
Namatjira, The Painter—20 min., sound, color.
A fascinating story of the life and artistic development of aboriginal Albert Namatjira, a former camel boy who is now one of Australia’s best-known water colorists. Wool Away—10 min., sound, color.
Shearing time in the country of the world’s greatest sheep flocks. Mustering, shearing, branding and wool classing are shown and explained.
Coral Wonderland—30 min., sound, color.
Shows the fabulous coral growths of the island reef coming to life under the microscope, and brings to the screen the magnificent color of the reef’s unique fishes and underwater creatures.
The Valley Is Ours—SS min., sound,
B & W.
Tells the story of the Murray, Australia’s most important river, which supports large and prosperous irrigation settlements. The battle against drought and fire in the dry areas of the Valley is depicted in dramatic sequences.
Aborigines of the Sea Coast—25 min., sound, color.
Deals with the life and habits of the Aborigines of the northeast sector of Arnhem Land. Unique sequences show native turtle hunters, canoe builders and house builders, with children at play and learning the lore of their ancestors.
Christmas Under the Sun—20 min., sound, B & W.
Tells how Australians at the other side of the world celebrate their midsummer Christmas.
FILM STRIPS
Australia, Country with a Future
74 Frames.
Gives a general cover of Australia and its industries.
Newcastle—36 Frames.
Features the Australian city of Newcastle, its steel mills and coal mines, and the way of life of its people.
NEW ZEALAND Motion Pictures
Available from Paul Brand, 2153 K Street, N. W., Washington 7, D.C.
Broad Acres—10 min., sd-b & w.
Judith and her friend Joan spend a weekend holiday in the country at a typical New Zealand sheep station. It is shearing time and the girls are thrilled as Judith’s father shows and tells them the story of New Zealand wool from pasture land to market. Coal From New Zealand’s Alps—9 min., sd b & w.
The drama of New Zealand’s mountain coal miners is portrayed. Opens with a panorama of New Zealand’s snow-capped Southern Alps and continues to present the story of the men who have pioneered the rugged slopes of the Westland mountains to mine New Zealand’s coal.
Golden Bay—10 min., sd b & w.
The industries, life and occupations of the peoples who live in this small New Zealand town where minerals and dairy-farming are the chief sources of livelihood.
Meet New Zealand—50 min., sd B & W.
Sequences on “The Face of the Land”, “The People”, “Industries and Transport”, “Sports”, etc. give an excellent picture of New Zealand as it is today.
“New Golden Hind” Sails North—10 min., sd & b & w.
The government-owned sailing vessels “The New Golden Hind” pays visits to isolated Raoul and Niue Islands, two of New Zealand’s northen Island territories. Views of these islands and their inhabitants are shown.
Roundup On Moleswortb—9 min., sd & bw.
“Roundup time at Molesworth Station provides an interesting background for this documentary of “cow punching” in the high country of the South Island, New Zealand. This land was once eroded and useless but modern conservation methods are restoring it to usefulness and productivity.
NEW ZEALAND FILM STRIPS
Available for free loan from New Zealand Embassy, Washington 8, D. C.
By Air In New Zealand.. .	44 fr.
Glories of the South Island 42 fr.
A High Country Sheep Station ...................... 33	fr.
Life On A New Zealand Dairy Farm................. 37	fr.
Loveliest Walk In The World ..................... 43	fr.
Maori Cloak................ 53	fr.
Maori Houses Of The Village ...................... 36	fr.
New Zealand—Angiers’ El Dorado .................... 42	fr.
New Zealand—Land of the Black Marlin............... 42	fr.
New Zealand: Country and People .................... 46	fr..
New Zealand Women.......	100	fr.
Scenic Wonders of the North Island............... 36	fr.
Ski Vacation. In New Zealand ...................... 44	fr.
Starshine Under the Earth	34	fr.
State Housing in New Zealand ...................... 55	fr.
Valley of Thermal Magic. .	30	fr.
Vikings of the Sunrise. ...	38	fr. Part	1
Vikings of the Sunrise. ...	51	fr. Part	2