Pan American
12	Won 10 Aramrs Teacher
5.	What in Germany compares to our states?
6.	What is the capital of the German Federal Republic?
7.	What nations form the Allied Control Council?
8.	Who is the Chancellor of Germany?
9.	Who is the President of the West German Republic?
10.	What can you tell about past forms of government in Germany?
IV. Are you able to write at least one fact
about the following people?
1.	Daimler
2.	Grimm
3.	Bach
4.	Beethoven
5.	Brahms
6.	Von Zeppelin
7.	Bismarck
8.	Kaiser
9.	Lilienthal
10.	Steinmetz
11.	Richard Wagner
12.	Schumann
13.	Robert Wagner
14.	Schurz
15.	Goethe
16.	Handel
17.	Mozart
IS.	Mendelssohn
19.	Hitler
20.	Von Hindenberg
21.	Luther
22.	Heuss
23.	Adenauer
V. Here are some general questions
1.	What does the phrase "will there be another Munich” mean?
2.	Who were the “three B’s?”
3.	What do we mean when we say that Germany has a good system of waterways?
4.	With what are the names Moselle and Rhine connected?
5.	What can you tell about Alsace-Lorraine?
6.	What does the word “ersatz” mean?
7.	Which is the largest lake in Germany?
8.	How many German contributions to world culture can you list?
9.	Besides the country being divided what important city is also divided?
10.	How many German immigrants can you list? What was their contribution to the U. S.?
VI. Questions for discussion
1.	A good part of the food producing area of Germany is now in the Soviet Zone.
What necessary changes has this condition brought about?
2.	“An interest in Germany is an interest in a peaceful Europe for Germany has always exercised an influence on the political and economic life of Europe.” What is your opinion?
3.	How temporary are the present borders of Germany?
4.	How is a nation helped to gain strength and stand on her own feet? How do your ideas apply to Germany?
5.	Talk about the Berlin “air lift” and its effect on Germany.
6.	Should Western Germany be allowed to rearm? To what extent?
7.	Discuss the Schuman Plan and the European Defense Plan for the future of Germany.
8.	Why does the Saar Valley cause friction between France and Germany?
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
World Airways Teacher is a quarterly publication distributed free of charge to teachers.
Each issue includes a teaching unit on some area of' the world, suitable for adaptation to geography and social studies programs, also news about flying and about educational travel.
If you do not receive World Airways Teacher now, request it by sending a two cent post card to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Beethoven: Master Musician—Goss—Holt
Sebastian Bach—Wheeler & Deucher— American News
Joseph Haydn: Merry Little Peasant-—• Wheeler & Deucher—American News
Little Fat Gretchen—Brook—•
American News
Children of the World—Carpenter—Align & Bacon
Markets of the. World—Dilling & Welch— Lyons & Carnahan
Plousehold Stories—Grimm—Giant Book Co.
The Ark—Isbert—Harcourt
Tales From Grimm—Grimm—Giant Book Co.
Germany—Berner—Holiday
Elementary Geography—N iver—Hinds, Hayden, Eldridge
Old World Lands—Barrows-Parker-Soren-son—Silver Burdett
Rambles in Europe—Peattie—American Book Co.
Foreign Lands and Peoples—Smith—Winston
Our Neighbors in America & Europe— Jansen-Alien—Ginn
The Nations at Work—Packard-Sinnott-Overton—Macmillan
History of the German General Staff— Goertez—Praeger
Richard Wagner: Who Followed a Star— Burch—Holt
A World View—Sorenson—-Silver Burdett
The World and Its Trade Relations— Jansen-Alien—Ginn
Old World Past and Present—Campbell-Webb-Nida—Scott Foresman
Germany—Fouchter—Merrill
Geography of World Peoples—McConnell— Rand McNally
Old World & Its Gifts-—-Meyer-Hamer-Grisso—Follett
Geography of Lands Overseas—McConnell —Rand McNally
At Home on Our Earth—Whipple-James— Macmillan
Weekly News Review—March 10, 1952; May 19, 1952; Jan. 19, 1953.
Every Week—March 9-13, 1953
Pan American World Airways Teacher— May-June 1950
World Horizons—Pan American World Airways
For Further Information
German Tourist Information Office—500 Fifth Avenue, New York 36
German Consulate General—745 Fifth Ave. New York City.
WEICKERSHEIN----Cathedral at Weickershein-gates in the foreground are the
entrance to the church yard.