36343 hccXL
c
1 cr-\,
icier
Pan Am errcan World Airwave Teacher
Sept., 1953
Published by Pan American World Airways
EUROPE BY CLIPPER
A DIARY
FILE
ness was cocktail and hors d’oeuvres service.
Next, dinner, and it was soup, steak, vegetables, salad, dessert and coffee. When we’d eaten everything and the trays had been taken back to the galley it was time for our landing at Goose Bay, Labrador.
There is a huge airport at Goose Bay, constructed for use during World War II. Trans Canada Airlines operates to and from the airport regularly and all the trans-Atlantic air lines have it for an alternate fuel stop, using it as we did on this trip. We left the airplane during the stop, went into the waiting room for coffee, and wrote some post cards.
Back on the airplane, we found the purser and stewardesses making up the berths. There are upper berths sufficient for about half the passengers, who pay extra for the privilege of using them. We chose to stay in our seats with the backs tipped back. Actually, Mary Ellen slept, and I went below to the lounge and sat there for about half the night talking to those assembled there. The night is pretty short on the east-bound flight. There is five hours difference in time, and you are losing the hours out of the darkness when you are flying eastward. I slept about an hour and a half. M. E. did somewhat better.
April 21. London.
I woke up from my brief sleep and looked at my watch. Six a.m. back in New York. In London, twelve noon (five hours for the time zone difference, plus another hour for summer time which was already in effect in London). Breakfast was being served. Between lapping up scrambled eggs, toast and coffee cake, and watching Ireland whiz by below us we were landing at Heath Row Airport in a trice, whatever that is.
Disembarking in London we were introduced to a persistent European custom which consists of filling out a card with your name (block letters) address, nationality, date of birth and your passport number.
Then came our first struggle with currency exchange. I had acquired a ten shilling note before leaving New York, and when it came time to give a tip to the porter who carried our bags I tried to get him to take the note, take out his tip and give me change. But he didn’t want to do it. It was up to me, he said. There was a place to get change, so I got it, and asked a PAA representative “How much does the porter get?” meantime exposing my coins. “Oh, two bob. That’s quite enough” he said, separating a two shilling coin (florin) from the shillings and other items I had received
(Continued oil pdge 2)
Part of the fun of traveling abroad is keeping a diary to show to your relatives and friends zvhen you return.
This one, kept by a\ friend of World Airways Teacher on his first visit to Europe, is presented in condensed form because we think it zvill give readers some idea of the common every day things they zvill encounter when they go to Europe. Ed.
April 20.
Aboard the Clipper Invincible.
This is one of the Double Decked “Strato” Clippers. The “Glad to Have You with Us” book that I took out of the literature pocket in front of my seat says it is the biggest and most powerful commercial plane ever constructed, with 40% more power than any other airliner. The four mighty engines deliver more horsepower than the largest locomotive ever built, the book says.
From wing tip to wing tip the Clipper measures 141 feet, 3 inches—from nose to tail, 110 feet 4 inches. From airport runway to the top of the tail it’s more than 38 feet. As big as a house. This Boeing-built nirliner was evolved from the famous B-50 of the Army Air Force, which flew nonstop around the world. Cruising speed is 340 m.p.h. and operating range 4500 miles... Usually cruises at an altitude between 15,000 and 25,000 feet, but can go on up to 33,000 feet if necessary... Pressurized, so that at high altitude the atmosphere in the cabin
corresponds to that of a lower level, for comfort in breathing.
It’s a Pan American Clipper, and we are going to Europe in it...
We were just settled in our seats when the Captain started the engines and ran them up one by one, very deliberately and then moved to the end of the runway. He stopped there to wait for our turn to take off.
During this brief wait he talked to us on the public address system, explaining the checking of engines and instruments that had just been completed, and telling us about the course we were to fly. We would proceed from Idlewild Airport out the length of Long Island and then up the coast line, past Boston, to our first fuel stop. Ordinarily, he said, this would be Gander, but on this flight we would go to Goose Bay instead, as weather at Gander was unsuitable.
By the time he had completed this explanation it was our turn to use the runway, and we took off at 4:05 p.m.
Once we were at altitude and seat belts could be unfastened, the first order of busi-