Pan Ammfca tv
World Airways Teacher
7
Needless to say, their cameras are still outstanding. They are really fine things, and cost twenty to thirty per cent less then they do here. The Leica, the Contax and the Rolleiflex are famous the world over.
There are other things that might interest you, and that is the surprise of finding a perfect hand-wrought gem, a charming ceramic pitcher, a fat copper pot, artistically handsome table cloth. (Let’s not forget, of course, the beautifully hand-woven Spanish table cloths). All over Germany people are spinning and weaving, fashioning wonderful shapes in thread and pewter, clay and brass. But among all varieties Bavarian china seems to be gaining popularity more than anything else, and it comes in unusual modern forms, which at the same time keep a classic purity. These are things that travelers—some at least—like to be reminded of.
Contrary to legend, German cooking is frequently light and delicate. The pigs’-knuckles-and-sauerbraten fare, which sinks the diner like a torpedo, as Mr. Temple Fielding remarks, is characteristic of Ger-man-American rather than Old Country fare. Today the menu offers everything so deliciously cooked that dining is a real delight. For instance, in the restaurants in the Rhine valley and around Lake Constance you will find every variety of cuisine, from the international to such gastronomical specialities as Black Forest ham and brandy, Swabian “Spätzle”, a kind of noodles, ribs of pork, “Maultaschen” which resemble Italian ravioli, freshly pressed wine and onion pie, and unsweetened pie crust covered with onions cooked in butter and cream and baked to a golden brown, famous Black Forest trout, and Rhine salmon to name only a few of a never-ending variety of popular dishes.
Auf Wiedersehen
Germany invites you to come. Pan American World Airways is ready to take you there, to place you in the center of this country of infinite variety, of countless medieval fairytale towns, of native festivals and time-honored hospitality. The Rhine with its unique castles perched upon high crags; the charming Moselle, the Main, the Neckar, the picturesque Black Forest, the Bavarian Alps, the many health resorts— none of these has lost anything of its former attraction. Untouched by war and destruction, the castles, the serene countryside, dotted with famous old wine towns and trim, dainty villages remain as they have always been—lovely. Even if you had said Auf Wiedersehen to Germany you might like to say once again Hello! to> the young Republic eager to welcome you as a friend.
The number of overnight reservations made in Germany by visitors from abroad in 1952 increased 30.7% over the previous year according to an announcement by the German Tourist Association. Reservations in 1952 totaled 4,376,186 compared with 3,347,861 in 1951. Of this number, guests from the United States were far in the lead, numbering 744,231, or 58.6% more than in 1951, and representing 17% of the 1952 total. Following the United States were the Netherlands, Sweden, France, England, Belgium-Luxembourg, Denmark, Switzerland and Italy.
GERMANY - ITS ECONOMY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Situated in the heart of Europe, Germany has always exercised a profound influence on the political and economic life of the Continent. A prosperous Germany has meant a prosperous Europe and an unsettled Germany has meant an uneasy Continent. The interest of the United States in Germany is as great as our interest in the establishment of a peaceful Europe. World Wars I and II are part of the past. Germany is part of everyone’s future, and as such is deserving of all possible cooperation and understanding.
With the end of World War II Germany’s structure was completely changed as a consequence of her defeat. Her present borders are temporary in nature, but how temporary nobody knows. The portion of the country lying east of the Oder and Neisse rivers was put under Polish administration. Königsberg, the city in which Prussian monarchs were crowned, and the surrounding territory were annexed by the Soviet Union. In the West, the Saar was economically separated from Germany and placed under an administration independent of that of the rest of the country.
The remaining territory was divided into four zones of occupation. Russia took
over control of central Germany. The British forces assumed control of northern Germany, which is important for its harbors and the industrial area of the Ruhr. The French occupied south-western Germany from Lake Constance to Coblenz on the Rhine. The American forces assumed responsibility for the southern section of the country from Frankfurt to Berchtesgaden. The city of Bremen was also declared to be under American jurisdiction. Therefore, including the territory under Polish administration there were five foreign administrations in Germany after 1945, and as many armies of occupation, plus contingents of Dutch, Belgian, Norwegian and Danish troops.
Within a short period of time however, the United States and its other Western Allies realized that Germany’s eventual cooperation in a union composed of the free nations of the world was highly desirable. After the three governments of the United States, France and Great Britain agreed on a common program for Germany designed to foster economic reconstruction, Great Britain and the United States effected a union O'f their two zones. With the fusion of the French zone, the economic and geo-
WURTZBURG—The Main River and the city of Wurtzburg as seen from the Marienberg Fortress.