Pa tv Amtricay
Wob io Afßmrs Teacher
11
SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT
(Continued from page 4)
’	4.2. Skills:
In this unit it might he a good idea to concentrate on critical thinking. Facts in various hooks will differ and good judgment will be necessary. Discussion skills might also be emphasized in this unit since the pupils have certainly heard many stories on the pros and cons of Germany.
4.3. Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
A realization of the changes which have taken place in Germany.
An understanding of German people and their concentration on rebuilding their country and of their post war problems.
The significance of Germany in the world community of nations.
An interest in American relations with Germany.
An appreciation of the music and literature which has come to us from Germany.
An appreciation of the technical and precision work for which Germany has always been famous.
5.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
1.	Collection of post cards, travel folders, scenic views, of Germany.
2.	Plan a sightseeing tour in Germany.
3.	See how many records of famous German musicians the class can collect. Plan a concert.
4.	An exhibit of many articles children have in their homes which come from Germany.
5.	A visit from a parent born in Germany or a relative who served there in the armed forces.
6.	Post names of Germans from various walks of life and have class identify them. Use quiz of this sort as an assembly program.
7.	Read some of the books listed in the bibliography and tell about them. A child who reads a story about a famous musician might tell it before the record is played.
8.	See movies and strip films suggested in this issue.
6.	CULMINATION:
A concert for an assembly program modeled after the radio and television programs where a narrator tells the life of the composer and something of the composition before it is heard by the audience.
Make slides of famous places in Germany and take the assembly on a tour.
Make scrap books of current events about Germany and pictures of famous people past and present.
Any of the items in #5 might be used as a culmination.
7.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1.	Books, magazines, pictures, as many as possible.
2.	Articles from Germany.
3.	Travel folders.
4.	Audio-Visual aids.
5.	Maps and globes.
6.	Personnel
8.	LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
After a study of Germany the children might be interested in some of the countries surrounding Germany.
Look over this list of words. It will help you to understand the reading matter.
aviline
baroque
beige
binoculars
category
base from which coal târ dyes are made irregular in shape; architecture of early 18th century a natural color telescope or opera glass used for two eyes at once a description of things of the same class
ceramic	molding and baking in clay
chancellor	a high officer of a state
conjunction	joined together, combination
contingent	dependent upon an uncertain future event
counseling-	consulting, advising-
cutlery	cutting instruments
debris	ruins
embraces	includes
enigma	puzzles
figurines	small, painted single or attached figures, small statues
foundries	where articles are cast from metal
fusion	state of change, blending
gastronomieal	eating good food
ingenuity	cleverness in originating
isolated	detached
lush	full, abundant
malleable	can be hammered or rolled out without breaking
niche	a recessed space or hollow
nostalgic	homesick
obstreperous	making- a disturbance, unruly
pewter	tin and lead mixture
pharmaceutical	relating to things sold in drug stores
pivot	something on which a matter hinges or turns
portals	gates, entranceways
precision	strictly accurate
predominantly	stronger, more influence
profound	thorough, deep thinking
prosperous	successful
radiant	bright, beaming with light
requisite	necessary, required
rubble	pieces, broken things
serene	clear, calm, peaceful
soirees	evening parties
spas	mineral springs
spectral	ghostly, images formed by rays of light
thermal	measured by heat
ubiquitous	always present
There is much	to learn and remember
about Germany.	If you can answer these
questions you have done a good job.	
I.	Draw a Large Map of Germany
1.	Show the four zones
2.	Put in the rivers; Rhine, Elbe, Weser, Oder
3.	Locate the capital of the Federal Republic and the past capital of Germany
4.	Indicate the Black Forest
5.	Locate Lake Constance
6.	Show the valleys; Saar, Ruhr, Rhine
7.	Locate these cities
a.	Coblenz
b.	Nuremberg
c.	Bremen
d.	Stuttgart
e.	Bayreuth
f.	Frankfurt
g.	Munich
h.	Hamburg
i.	Berchtesgaden
j.	Cologne
k.	Weisbaden
1.	Krefeld
m.	Heidelberg
n.	Solingen
8. Show the countries bounding Germany
II.	What do you remember about the cities in Germany? Can you MATCH these?
1.	Weisbaden	city of cathedrals
2.	Bonn	university town
3.	Cologne	spas
4.	Heidelberg	knives, scissors, etc.
5.	Solingen	seaport
6.	Berlin	birthplace of Beethoven
7.	Hamburg	picture galleries
8.	Dresden	former capital
9.	Frankfurt	munitions center
10.	Essen	financial center
11.	Nuremberg	river port
12.	Dusseldorf	railroad center
III.	How about the government of Germany?
1.	Who is at the head of the government?
2.	What is his term of office?
3.	What is the law making body called?
4.	How many houses does it have?
BAVARIA—The entire family gets out in the field when it is time to brt-ing in the hay. The mountain in the background is in the Bavarian Alps.