Pan American
14	World Airways Teacher
(Continued from page 2)
there you are. Amazing! Didn’t get lost, and there is the Arc d’ Triomphe.
It is an impressive sight indeed, and getting across the plaza, for a close look is an adventure. Cars come in from twelve directions, and there is no traffic light for miles around. We walked from that point along the Rue d’lena to the Seine, and across a bridge to the Eiffel Tower. Being warm and winded by this time, we bought glacier cafe from a man with a push cart. It tasted very much like a rather icy coffee ice cream cone.
We find that the elevators in the tower run in three stages, with a separate fare for each stage. M. E. is not fond of high places (except when airplanes) so we decided to settle for one stage. The elevator doesn't go straight up—it skitters upward at about a ninety degree angle, so you have to hang on to something to keep from falling over. This takes you to the top of the base, and the area there is a city block. We explored it and found telescopes which we didn’t use, because of being too miserly to pay the fee, also couples making love, whom we ignored to be polite.
After this we went by taxi to the vicinity of the University of Paris, the Sorbonne. Walked through part of the school, and wandered around the streets. Sidewalk cafes are like a jungle there, and so are the beards on the faces of the male students. We found a very nice restaurant where we ate about 2500 francs worth of soup, Cote Veau Provencal (a veal casserole) Perrier water and cafe au lait. The head waiter gave us directions for returning by bus, and the ride was interesting. Also, the conductor tried to tell us when to get off for Rue Madelaine, but we didn’t understand, and went a half dozen blocks too far. We got lost but good. A dignified gentleman tried to give us directions for walking and an inebriated one stopped and tried to help, and we tried to walk home, but in the end got lost even better and had to return to the hotel in a cab.
April 26.
Sunday. We got on the Metro and went to Notre Dame Cathedral. Arriving in the vicinity we were somewhere in the back of the huge church, and couldn’t cpiite decide which way to go to reach the entrance. So M. E. tried out her technique for getting directions, which by this time was working rather well. She picked the first person she saw, pointed to the cathedral and asked “Entree?” The lady replied, “Walk up to that corner and go in at the beginning.” An English tourist!
We went in at the beginning and found our timing was wrong, for the Mass apparently had started at 11:30, while we thought it would be twelve. We found seats, though, and discovered that we had happened upon a memorial service for War dead. There were many men in uniform, dignitaries in formal frock coats and an honor guard of boy scouts.
After the service was over we explored the book stalls. (The cathedral is on an island in the Seine, and the book stalls are nearby, both on the island and on the mainland.) Looked at dozens of books and bought two. Afternoon was devoted to The
Louvre, and especially Venus de Milo which, even without arms and with damage in other places, is nevertheless the outstanding statue of all statues, I guess.
April 27.
Had our first expedition via American Express sightseeing bus today. It was a trip to> Versailles which was the palace of Louis XIV and now is a museum. It is also the historic locale of the Treaty of Versailles, of course. It is huge and lavish, with beautiful murals, frescoes and tapestries. There is very little furniture. Our guide explained that most of the furniture disappeared at the time of the French Revolution, and that most of it now is in America. The authorities in charge do not want to replace it with reproductions or even with other furniture from the period, SO' it is left bare as far as furniture is concerned. But the art work on the walls gives the visitor a strenuous cultural workout. The gardens are a triumph in landscaping—not so impressive as we saw them as it was too early in the spring, but we could imagine what they would be like later—especially at night with the fountains going, the colored lights playing, and the ballet from Paris putting on a big show.
The tour concluded with a visit to the coach house, where the vehicles used by royalty are preserved, and the guide took the hardiest members of the party on a hike through the woods to Marie Antoinette’s play house.
Evening was devoted to the Folies Berge, which we enjoyed very much, and will only say here that there is no middle ground in costuming. Either it is next to nothing, or it is the complete works in hoop skirts, feather head dresses and spangles. In one production number, the star wore a hoop skirt that was at least twenty-five feet in diameter. That wasn’t enough in itself. The lights went out and on again, and we found that the scarlet skirt had been removed and there was in a silver one.
April 28. Paris to Rome.
On this leg of our trip we traveled on The Rainbow, which is the PAA tourist service. The airplanes are DC6B’s which are very comfortable, but simply have seats for more passengers (high density seating) fewer frills in the food line, dispense with other luxury items, and cost much less.
Our route took us over Nice, and we could see the foothills of the Alps in the distance. Landed at Ciampino, the airport serving Rome, and went by bus and cab to Albergo Eliseo. The pace was beginning to tell. We took a short walk, and then piled into bed. April 29.
Made our own breakfast in the room as a measure to combat the high cost of tourism. We had macaroons we had brought from Paris (big fat flaky ones) and instant coffee from the United States. The coffee was less than perfect, as the water in the tap wasn’t hot enough.
Well, I wanted to check in at the PAA office, and M. E. went about some shopping and we arranged to meet later at American Express. By the time of that meeting I thought I knew of a short cut back to the hotel. It turned out to be a long cut instead, because we got on the far side of the ancient city wall, and had a walking tour of the Marghese Park. It was a pleasant
walk, and we found the hotel all right under our own power, but upon arrival we found that all our own power was exhausted, so piled into bed at two o’clock in the afternoon.
By 5 p.m. we had revived sufficiently to take off in a taxicab for the Teatro Argentina for a concert. We’d wanted to go to the opera in Rome, but there was no performance scheduled during our brief stay, so we settled for the concert.
At the box office we tried to negotiate for tickets on some logical basis, but with no common ground in language we had to resolve the problem by pointing to a price on the ticket schedule. We picked 400 lire because that was midway. Well, we took our tickets and started in (we were late and the concert had started). Various functionaries steered us through various doors, and we came to dingier and dingier parts of this ancient theater.
Finally we broke out into a little room behind the stage and an usherette pointed to chairs and indicated we should sit. M. E. pulled up short, and I thought she was preparing to retire in retreat. We both thought we had taken tickets at so low a price we just had to sit in the broom closet and listen through the wall. Then I realized that it was only that we couldn’t be seated in the middle of a number. So we sat down, and had to wait about a half hour because the orchestra had just started a Brahms symphony. At its conclusion, the usherette beckoned to- us first and found our seats.
The Teatro Argentina has a block of seats on the stage—behind the orchestra. You are practically sitting in the orchestra, and can follow the conductor just like the musicians. In fact, a look around revealed to us that we were sitting with some of the serious students. It was a most enjoyable experience, and we stumbled into it by accident.
According to our custom, we walked when we left the concert. This time we really got lost in a section where the streets were so narrow that cabs couldn’t get in there—only motor bikes that came plowing and screeching through with horns blowing. By accident we finally worked our way out and found the Tiber River. We were much relieved, as it was pretty dark. We were hungry, too, and popped into the first restaurant we could see. Had a terrific time with the menu and no one could talk to- us so I ate spaghetti and drank Coca Cola, and Mary Ellen had lettuce salad and pizza. At the conclusion we asked for coffee. Our obliging young waiter took off for a coffee house down the block, got the coffee and brought it to us.
Walked again, got lost again, and finally found a taxicab to take us home.
April 30.
Two long sightseeing trips by bus today —to the Marghese Museum and then to St. Peter’s in the Vatican in the morning, and then to the ruins of ancient Rome in the afternoon. I’ll skip the details of these trips —they’re in all the books. But I must make a record of this evening’s dinner. It was at the California, a restaurant in the area where the air lines and steam ship companies have their offices. I ate ham and eggs, and M. E. selected a steak sandwich.
May 1.
In Rome as in many other European coun-