Pan Amerrca v
World Airways Tfachrr
15
tries, May 1 is Labor Day. We wanted to go back to the Vatican to see the museum and the Sistine Chapel, but didn’t want another formal tour so started looking for a cab. None was to be had. It was Labor Day for the taxi drivers too. So we walked, and it was a long hot dusty walk.
Arriving at the plaza before S. Pietra we found that the labor organizations were parading. So we found a place at a sidewalk cafe and sat watching them. Next stop was the Vatican Museum. It is huge, and we were there for hours.
The route through the Vatican Museum is arranged so that you arrive at the Sistine Chapel at the end of your visit.
It is a room that ordinarily would be considered rather large for a chapel, but small for a church. The ceiling is very high. The
murals and the fresco are Michelangelo’s masterpiece, of course, and particularly the story of the creation on the ceiling. The doors have faded, and there are cracks in the ceiling, but no' one has the audacity to attempt a restoration, and I don’t think it is called for. I’m not going to attempt to describe the Sistine Chapel, or comment. You’ll all have to go and see for yourselves.
In the evening we attended an Italian movie. It was the life of Puccini—in technicolor—and with selections from many of his operas. We liked this especially, since we had no opportunity to attend an opera in Rome.
We attended an early show, and waited until afterward to have dinner. Dinner comes late in Rome anyway. They close up all shops and offices from one to 4, then
reopen until 7 p.m. or later, and dinner comes still later. We found a very good little restaurant near our hotel and ate spaghetti and roast chicken.
May 2 and 3. Rome to New York.
We left Rome on the President in midafternoon, had a stop of about an hour at Paris, another one at Shannon and then flew through the night. With respect to hours of darkness, this was the opposite of the trip over. Traveling with the sun instead of toward it, we got extra hours of night, and managed to get more sleep. The fuel stop on this side of the Atlantic was at Gander—before daylight, then on to New York with an early arrival about 8:30 a.m.
It’s all over now. Too bad! But we can hang on to the memories !!!
cAnnouncing...
50th ANNIVERSARY OF POWERED FLIGHT
frontest for teachers
OBJECTIVES:
1. To stimulate classroom teachers to have their students engage in appropriate and significant educational activities commemorating the 50th Anniversary of Powered Flight.
2. To further the public’s awareness of aviation’s implications to education.
To offer a token recognition of the increasingly effective work being done by organized education to develop air-minded citizens.
To collect further evidences of effective teaching techniques devised and used by classroom teachers teaching either separate courses in aviation or using the content of aviation to enrich all the school’s offerings.
DESCRIPTION OF CONTEST:
The contest program involves the selection of the classroom teachers from each state who during the year (December 17, 1952 through December 17, 1953) have done the best work in the preparation and/or use of instructional materials for aviation education and awarding to those individuals a three-day all-expense free air trip to Washington, D. C. to attend the Wright Memorial 50th Anniversary Dinner on December 17, 1953.
RULES OF CONTEST:
Any person enrolled as a professional educator (or enrolled in an accredited school of education) is eligible.
The aviation education material accepted for consideration may be in the form of teaching units, resource units, scripts for radio, TV programs, and audio-visual aids, narrative reports of classroom and/ or community experiences, plays, and brief aviation stories, factual or imaginative.
No limit is placed upon the number of items that can be submitted by a contestant.
Four awards will be made in each state, one for each of the following grade levels: primary, intermediate, junior high, and senior high.
Winning contestants will also tour the Nation’s capital, visit Air Force, Navy, and civilian aviation facilities to see and learn about the latest advancements in aircraft and electronic navigational aids, as well as participate in stimulating discussions on aviation education led by recognized leaders from education, industry, and government.
Awards will be made on a state-wide basis by a committee appointed by the State Superintendent of Instruction.
Contest opens September 1, 1953 and continues through November 17, 1953. Winners will be announced no later than December 8, 1953.
All submitted materials will also be reviewed by a National Committee of Educators who will select those items deemed best for publication in national educational journals and the like. Entries used in commercial publications will be submitted for reimbursement at prevailing rates.
Write now to:
THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE TO OBSERVE THE 50th ANNIVERSARY OF POWERED 1405 G STREET, N. W., WASHINGTON 5, D. C„
FLIGHT,
for free copies of material on Aviation s Golden Anniversary and have your name entered officially as a participating contestant.
JAMES H. DOOLITTLE, lt. gen. (usafr) Chairman, National Committee
DR. HEROLD C. HUNT, Chairman Educational Subcommittee