PajV American
World Airways Teacher
WURTZBURG—Entrance to the Marienberg Fortress which belonged to the Wurtzburg bishops, who were also Dukes of Franconia.
at the junction of the Moselle and the Rhine, and up the river past the famous castles, ruins and vineyards, crossing medieval villages such as Boppard, St. Goar, past the Lorelei Rock, then to Wiesbaden, and finally Frankfurt.
Heidelberg
Heidelberg, the old university town on the Neckar River, is no longer sleepy or nostalgic in atmosphere. Its charm and beauty, praised in poems and paintings, still remain a symbol of everlasting youth. The town fits into the landscape, following the gentle slopes of the hills and spreading out into the plain on both sides of the Neckar. At Heidelberg Castle the giant wine barrel (55,000 gallons) is still there, and the visitor is told the tale of Perkeo the dwarf who drained it to the last drop. Perkeo owes his fame to Scheffel, the Heidelberg poet, who also sang of Rodenstein, the spectral Count, who, according to the legend, still rises from his grave in stormy nights to lead the wild chase. The Karzer Prison for obstreperous fifteenth-century students, the Old Bridge with its strong and graceful arches, and the traces of rip-roaring history make Heidelberg very interesting indeed.
Heidelberg, in the United States Zone, is one of the few cities completely unmarked by the war. A walk through its picturesque narrow streets may take you spiritually centuries back—to the Middle Ages-—and discover among those twisting lanes hidden
beauties, for instance, an artistic image of the Holy Virgin looking down from a dark niche, Baroque doors and portals or chiselled key-stones and old coats of arms.
Of course, we all know about the famous Heidelberg University, but the city is proud also of many works of art, of its museums and libraries. The most valuable of those treasures in the Museum of the Palatinate is the “Twelve Apostle Altar”, finished in 1509 by the famous German carver Tilman Riemenschneider. The green surrounding hills and woods, the red sandstone buildings and the radiant sky give Heidelberg an air of cheerfulness and gaiety. You will remember all the Student Prince music as you drink beer in the Roter Ochsa (Red Ox), the historic students’ inn and beer hall. Heidelberg has attracted visitors throughout the centuries, arousing in each one that enthusiasm so well expressed in the words of the romantic poet Clemens von Brentano to his friend Achim von Arnim, “Komme in dies schone Land, es ist hier schoen, un-begreiflich schoen.”
The female
German women are playing an increasingly important part in public life, particularly since the end of World War II. You will find them as cabinet members in the various state parliaments. Women are managers of several of the important state-sponsored theatres. All the four big radio stations, according to some recent reports,
have women in leading positions. Two of the biggest illustrated magazines in Germany have women editors. You will find many well-known women doctors, and a few outstanding plastic surgeons.
In a lower category, a woman worker makes somewhere between 150 marks to 250 marks a month (from $40 to $65). Of course, this figure does not compare favorably with the average salary of an American girl, who could buy, let us say, twenty pairs of medium priced shoes out of her month’s salary, whereas the German girl would be glad to buy five. However, the German working girl has good social security arrangements and is well looked after as far as her health insurance goes. For instance, she cannot be fired without notice—domestic workers get two weeks’ notice and office workers receive, as a rule, a full month’s notice.
One of the things that first strike you about the German girl is that she is almost always wearing a light-beige raincoat. In England you notice the ubiquitous umbrella in the men’s arms. In France men never seem to wear ironed trousers, and women are either very elegantly dressed or rather carelessly attired. In Spain—in Madrid at least—this contrast does not seem to be so great. But in Germany, the raincoat is characteristic and the German girl looks different from any other women in it. The next thing is that more often than not she is carrying a large bag, bulging with an umbrella stuck into it. In the raincoat she could be any German woman, but with the bag, she is very likely a working woman.
At home the German woman—like most mothers in the world—works hard all week. But unlike others, she considers Saturday a special day—a day to cook something special for the family, to bake a cake for Sunday dinner, to go to the movie in the evening, or best of all the opera, with the whole family. She is the pivot—explains a friend of mine who lived many years in Germany—around which the family revolves. And he adds, the Sunday excursion is a German specialty, a, typical family affair. They start early in the morning, on bicycles, on motorbikes, on motorcycles and on foot (Germans walk miles and miles and love it) accompanied by picnic lunch, dogs, and all. The whole afternoon—or part of it—is spent in a Gasthaus drinking beer or light wine, then they return at nightfall laden with pine roses and wild flowers. I don’t claim, of course, that all this must be so, but you can take it for what it’s worth.
Toys and things typically German
The toys made in Germany, explains my friend, are something unique. Few countries in the world can offer you as handsome and inexpensive a variety of toys. The price? A train which puffs smoke, whistles, and does tricks which can put a Lionel train (pardon Mr. Lionel) to shame, costs one fourth of the price of the latter. Remote control automobiles return automatically to their tiny garages, and even shut the doors after them. There are amazing music boxes, clowns which dance while they sing folk tunes, submarines which dive and then come to the surface. In this field, you have to admit their ingenuity.