AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
(1)	Germany Today, 27 min., Sound—Mc-Graw Hill Co., 330 West 42nd Street, New York
Produced by the March of Time, this film depicts the industrial and rebuilding programs of West Germany today.
Presenting the recovery which West Germany has effected since the close of World War II, this film surveys the industrial and rebuilding programs of West Germany, showing how the people have used their industrial and creative ability to develop coal and steel production and heavy equipment industries in the cause of the West. In housing and in rebuilding bombed out cities, too, West Germany is making progress. The film gives detailed coverage of the East German frontier and points to the growing tension between East and West Germany.
(2)	This Is the Saar—1952, 13 min., Sound —Research Survey, Inc., 8 West 40th St., New York.
Presents the people and industries of the Saar Basin and their importance to the economy and peace of Europe.
(3)	Salzburg—1952,	18 min., Sound—
Gateway Productions, Inc., 1859 Powell St., San Francisco, Cal.
We see the famous music festival at Salzburg, the birthplace of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. This film captivates the atmosphere of the composer’s time and the symphonies of Mozart serve appropriately as musical background.
(4)	Germany—1952,	19 min., Sound-
United World-Government Films,
1445 Park Avenue, New York.
This film produced by the United States Navy, shows Western Germany under allied protection. .
(5)	Romantic Rothenburg—1951, 18 min., Sound—Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
A good tourist’s eye view of the ancient city of Rothenburg in Bavaria, Germany. The picture deals interestingly with the architecture and traditions of this well preserved medieval city. Every year at Festival time the people enact their traditional history in traditional costumes. Scenes from the “Festival Plays” and the Shepherd’s Dance are portrayed.
(6)	Oberamergau—1951, 18 min., Sound— Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
In this charming film we travel to Bavaria in South Germany to the quaint village of Oberamergau, scene of the famous Passion Play. We not only tour Oberamergau and the nearby village of Mittenburg, but also visit the Passion Play Theatre and meet the townsfolk: the performers in this famous presentation.
(7)	The Angels of Dinkelsbuhl—1951, 18 min., Sound—-Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
PA/V AMERfCA/V
Wo rid A/Rmrs Teacher
In the German province of Bavaria is Dinkelsbuhl. This charming town still retains its air of the middle age in its cobble-stoned streets, walls, turrets and quaint architecture. The film shows the “Thanksgiving Festival” when the townsfolk enact their famous “Children’s Play”, depicting-how the children saved the town from razing by the Spanish Army during the Thirty Years’ War.
(8)	The Grand Duchy—1951, 18 min., Sound—Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
Perched high on its rocky crag and surrounded on all sides by deep valleys is Luxembourg City, picturesque capital of the proud State of Luxembourg. The tour of the Duchy includes a visit to the Moselle River Valley at the time of the colorful grape and wine harvest.
(9)	Glimpses of Picturesque Germany— 1952, 2 min., Sound—Films of the Nations, 61 West 45th Street, N. Y.
Folklore festivals along the Rhine, in the Black Forest and Bavaria are shown. To the accompaniment of German music we see a festival in native costume and the famous dances of the country. We take a trip through the vineyards of the Moselle and along the Rhine.
(10)	Berlin Masterpieces—1950, 20 min., Sound—-National Film Distributors, 112 West 48th Street, N. Y.
In this film, with Basil Rathbone narrating the commentary, 16 paintings are shown of the group from the art museums of Berlin which toured the United States in 1949. Paintings included are: Durer’s Hieronymus Holzschuher; Van Der Weyden’s Portrait of a Young Woman; Van Cleve’s A Young Man; Patinit’s Flight into Egypt; Vermeer’s Pearl Necklace; Vermeer’s Lady and Gentleman Drinking Wine; Hals’ Singing Boy with a Flute; Hals’ Malle Babbe; Carpaccio’s Simonetta Vespucci; Raphael’s Madonna and Child; Titan’s Venus and the Organ Player; Cranach’s Lucretia; Botticelli’s Venus; Corregio’s Leda and the Swan.
(11)	City Out of Darkness, 1950, 9 min., Sound—Mutual Security Administration, Washington, D. C.
Shows the construction of the electrical power station in West Berlin on which the German people have been at work day and night since April 1948. Much of the machinery was flown in by the “air-lift”. Includes sequences which illustrate how electricity is generated from coal.
(12)	Post-War Germany—Religious Film Association, 220 Fifth Avenue, N. Y.
In production by Julien Bryan, for release in September, 1953. This is a film on Europe which will contain much footage on post-war Germany.
(13)	Mr. Miller’s First Night—1952, 25 min., K. L. M. Airlines, New York City.
The tale of a “camera-mad” couple who travelled back to Germany to see the Fatherland once again. Scenes of the Rhine, Tegernsee, Frankfurt, Hamburg, Munich and other places are depicted.
13
Filmstrips
Germany Divided—1951 (53 Frames)—Report on the News Series, New York Times, Times Square, N. Y.
Beginning with an historical introduction that goes back to the war of 1870, Germany’s record of aggression is outlined. The present division of the country into East and West, the internal politics and economic progress of West Germany are sketched. Consideration of the political and economic policy of East Germany under Russian domination follows. Movements for re-united Germany are touched on. The granting of more sovereignty to West Germany, the rise of neo-Nazi sentiment and the slow progress of democracy there are dealt with. Finally the questions are posed whether Hitler’s spirit is dead and whether West Germany is a reliable ally against Russia.
Kodachrome Slides
Sets of 2" x 2" color slides available from European Art Color Slide Co., 201 West 82nd Street, New York.
German Painters:
Cranach, Lucas, the Elder Durer, Albrecht Grünewald, Mathis Neithart Isenmann, Gaspard Schongauer, Martin
NEW BOOKLET DESCRIBES PAA TRAVEL MOVIES
A new booklet describing nineteen color travel movies and how to get them for civic, church, educational, business and social groups has just been published by Pan American World Airways. The booklet may be obtained free at any Pan American office.
The 16-millimeter sound films range from a two-reel, 20-minute visit to sunny Bermuda to a six-reel, 57-minute tour of South America. Other films in the PAA travel library take the armchair tourist to France, England, Belgium, Italy, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Ireland, Haiti, Hawaii, Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Trinidad, Jamaica, Alaska and New York.
Also available are movies on big game fishing in South America, on PAA’s big do-uble-deck “Strato” Clippers, on the first quarter-century of PAA’s global operations and on model airplane building.
The movies, all produced “on location” since the war by expert photographers and technicians, can be obtained for showing by distributors listed state by state in the back of the booklet.
Any school, civic, church or social group is welcome to use these Pan American World Airways travel films. Small service fees are sometimes charged by the distributor to offset the expense of booking and preparing for shipment, and users are also expected to assume transportation costs.
The booklet describing the PAA films, and giving detailed information regarding bookings, is available without charge at any Pan American World Airways ticket office. Also, teachers may obtain the booklet by writing to Educational Director, Pan American World Airways, 28-19 Bridge Plaza North, Long Island City 1, N. Y. Simply ask for “movie brochure”.