2
Pan Am enrCA tv
World Airways Teacher
Pah American World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 9 53, Pan American World Airways, Inc Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(Continued from page 2) for my ten shilling note. I passed the two bob to the porter.
With that matter settled we finally took off for the city. We’d met a PAA employee from Rome on the airplane. He had been to London once before, so could offer a few suggestions about how to do things. We agreed—the Rome PAA man, M.E. and I— that it was most confusing to' have the automobile traffic on the left hand side of the highway instead of the right. It is only England, and certain English territories, that use the system.
The bus took us to Victoria Station, where we claimed our bags and found a taxicab. The English cabs are rather small and mostly ancient, but well polished and well cared for mechanically. Our friend from Rome told us that even when they do put new cabs on the street they conform to the design of twenty or thirty years ago.
Our reservation was at the Kensington Palace Hotel, located across the street from Hyde Park. In the park is the Kensington Palace which was once the home of Queen Victoria. There is a statue in the park, of Victoria Regina, by her daughter.
At the hotel we were assigned to a very comfortable room, with private bath. Tub about eight feet long, somewhat less than a swimming pool. We unpacked, then went to the lounge downstairs for our first tea in England. We had the works, which consisted of sandwiches, cakes, and of course tea. After that we took a bus to Piccadilly Circus, which is the approximate equivalent of Times Square in New York. Just as Times Square is not a square, but rather a sort of piece of pie, Piccadilly Circus is not a. circus. It is a circle—the words circle and circus coming from the same Latin root.
Having acquired the foregoing information and accomplished considerable gawking, we got back on the bus and went home to the hotel to bed.
April 22.
We were awake at 7 a.m. and M. E. undertook to order breakfast. She found on the telephone that we could get scrambled eggs and bacon, or we could get kippers. We selected kippers. They came along under a silver cover—smoked fish about eight inches long, broiled, and delicious, except loaded with bones.
So then we took a walk in Hyde Park, across the street. This is the same Hyde Park in which the orators hold forth from soap boxes or the equivalent, but that is at the other end of the park. Where we were
it was grass and trees and a pond inhabited by ducks and swans. The scene at the pond was most romantic. Ducks and swans were all paired off—boy and girl, boy and girl. In honor of our second honeymoon, we decided. ..
One of our London projects was to have a roast beef and Yorkshire pudding dinner. Somebody had told Mary Ellen that the place for this was Simpson’s, so off to Simpson’s we went. It turned out to be a big, high ceilinged, brownish looking place, with mostly men diners. The roast beef dinner was excellent. We enjoyed it, and we enjoyed watching out of the corners of our eyes to see how the other people acted. It was our impression we were probably the only tourists. The other diners gave us the impression of being quite conservative, and just like you’d expect the English to' be. At the end, when we thanked the head waiter for an excellent dinner and service, he beamed and said he was fortunate to be able to serve us roast beef. Can’t always get it, he said, even yet. But we discovered that austerity in England is not nearly so austere as it has been in recent years.
After dinner we attended a revue called London Laughs, at the Adelphi Theater. In an English theater you sit in a stall, rather than a seat. You hand the usherette a six pence—that’s to pay for the program. At intermission time you either dash out to the bar, or sit still and buy ice cream from a young lady who waits upon you to provide that service. Smoking goes on at a great rate.
We liked the show, but couldn’t get the nuances of English humor, and naturally we failed on the local references. (Who from Soho would know what we would mean when we talk about Greenpoint?)
After the performance we stopped at a tea shop, had coffee, and then home to bed. April 23.
We have so little time, and so much we want to do that we have paced ourselves fast.
M. E. wanted to visit the National Gallery to see the paintings. We left the hotel by cab and asked the driver to go by way of Buckingham Palace and Westminster Ab-bqy. He was agreeable—naturally—but was careful to let us know that Westminster Abbey was closed for renovations preparatory to the Coronation.
A lucky break on this taxi ride took us past Buckingham Palace just as they were changing the guard. This is a once a day ceremony with band, marching and ceremony. The bright red uniforms and the huge bearskin busbies make it a colorful spectacle indeed. This is the special uniform of the guards. There are five different regiments which supply guards. The Grenadiers have white plumes at the left side of their bearskin caps and wear the buttons on their tunics in regular even spacing. The Coldstream guards may be distinguished by the red plumes on the right side of their bearskin and their tunic buttons arranged in pairs. For the Scots guards there is no plume and the buttons are in groups of three. The Irish guards wear Saint Patrick blue plumes (yes, blue) on the right side of their bearskins and the buttons in groups of four. The Welsh guards have green and white plumes on
their bearskins and wear their buttons in groups of five.
We went our separate ways for a while, and when I met M.E. again at 3 p.m. I found her in a telephone booth at the museum trying to fathom the intricacies of the British telephone and call me in accordance with a procedure we had agreed upon if I should be delayed. With the English phone you drop in three of those huge English pennies, the operator comes on and gets your number and rings it. When there is a reply you punch button A and there is a clanking and whirring while the telephone gobbles up your pennies and then you can talk. Without pushing Button A, no talk. Your party can’t hear you. If there is no answer you push Button B and your pennies come jangling back.
I had told an English acquaintance that we proposed to go to London Bridge and he hoped we wouldn’t be disappointed, but suggested that we gO’ there on the “water bus” if it had started operating for the season. Following his directions, we investigated, found that sure enough it was, so we went to Westminster Pier, bought tickets, and had a ride on the water bus.
The water bus is a sightseeing boat on The Thames, something like taking the sightseeing boat for a trip around Manhattan Island. We rode the water bus on down the river under all the bridges—including London Bridge, and disembarked at the Tower of London. Was I surprised. I expected to see a tower, but instead it turns out to be an entire military establishment. No doubt there is a tower included somewhere. We arrived too late to- make the tour, but M. E. struck up1 an acquaintance with the yeoman on duty at the gate and he explained many things to us—about the times when high ranking people waited their turns there to have their heads chopped off. This includes Ann Boleyn, Mary Queen of Scots and others. The Tower is the depository for the crown jewels now. During the war there was a large garrison there, but at the present time there is only a unit of guardsmen for ceremonial purposes, and to direct the tourists. ..
(Bowing to space limitations we skip over several pages and rejoin the diarist and “M.E.” in Paris.
Ed.)
April 25. Paris.
We were up early and dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast of a very hard roll, a soft “croissant” (sweet roll in the form of a crescent) and cafe au lait (coffee with hot milk).
Our first sightseeing objective was the Arc d’Triomphe, and we decided to go on the Metro—which is the subway. You wander around underground guessing what the signs mean and trying to get directions from people who can’t understand you, finally find a ticket office where you shout that you want to go to Place d’ Etoile, pronounc-| ing it Place dee toil, get the response Plass day Twaw? and hand in some francs, get tickets and change. Then you explore some more and find a platform, hoping it is the right one. Then you get on the train, go three stops and emerge on the street, and
(Continued on page 14)