Pan Amf/uca/v
Worio Airways Teacher	9
DINKELSBUHL is a town of about 5,000 in western Germany, an agricultural center as may be observed from the load of hay being pulled through the street by oxen.
machines, material handling equipment, paper making and printing machines, machines for the food industry as well as all kinds of machine tools, all of them the latest in modern construction and mechanical precision. There are almost 4,000 machinery manufacturing plants in Western Germany, centered mainly in the Ruhr area, the Rhine-Main triangle, Wuerttemberg, Munich-Augsburg, Hamburg and Berlin. Every manufacturing plant needs machines and each machine manufacturer wants to be located near his primary customers. Therefore the manufacturers of mining equipment and machinery are found predom -inantly in the Ruhr area and the rest of industrial Rhineland-W estphalia ; producers of textile machinery in the textile center around Bielefeld ; and producers of machinery for the food industry predominantly in southwest Germany and Wuertem-berg. The machine tool industry, which offers a lot of novelties, is centered in the Ruhr area, in Wuerttemberg and in Berlin. In 1950, German industry produced 1.3 billion dollars worth of machinery of which 263 million dollars were exported. The United States purchased only 5 million dollars worth of machinery before Korea. Today, however, Germany is as well qualified as any country to fill shortages caused by the change-over of United States industry to defense production.
Solingen, Germany, has long been famous as a trade mark on such products as knives, scissors, razors, razor blades, tableware, cork screws and can openers. Today, Solingen quality and appearance is up to prewar standards in every way. In addition to Solingen, other German centers of cutlery manufacture specialize in products that meet the high standards demanded by foreign buyers. These centers are located predominantly in the Ruhr area as well as in southern Wuerttemberg. Tuttlingen for example, has a high reputation for medical, dental and surgical instruments. Tools, another German specialty, are often manufactured in connection with cutlery. Such products as hammers and pliers, chisels and drills and endless varieties of combination kits are sold the world over.
German made cameras are also famous the world over for their outstanding ingenuity, precision workmanship and mechanical reliability. The names of the top German cameras are almost as well known in the United States as famous cigarette brand names. German binoculars are also noted for their superior qualities. The country’s microscopes and measuring instruments are a boon to scientists wherever they live. Telescopes are favorites of leading astronomers and German projectors help teachers to illustrate a multitude of subjects. This branch of German industry accounts for a large share of total German exports. The defense effort of the Western world gives an added importance to the industry which is expected to increase its output considerably above the 1950 level of 20,000 high caliber microscopes, 130,000 binoculars and 1,800,000 cameras.
Rhine wine is said to be at its best in a fine glass which is often an output of Germany. The German glass industry produces
fine glass, crystal drinking goblets and stemware. In industrial and scientific glassware the nation’s reputation for precision workmanship is high. German thermometers, plate glass, sheet glass, medical, chemical and pharmaceutical hollow glassware are especially popular in the United States. German chinaware (developed over 250 years ago) brought the country 120 million dollars from exports in 1950. This represented about one-fifth of all German exports to the United States. Fine German china has always been popular in this country as figurines, particularly period costumes and group scenes with built-in musical works. In the industrial and scientific field Americans have long used German porcelain products.
A German, Peter Henlein from Nuremberg, invented the pocket watch and today the country is still one of the leading watch manufacturing countries. Watch and clock buyers from all Continents meet in the Black Forest towns of Schramberg, Triberg, Vil-lingen, Schwenningen, St. Georgen, Furt-wangen and above all in world famous Pforzheim. Watches and clocks range from tiny ring watches to big grandfather clocks. Famous hand-carved cookoo' clocks of the Black Forest are particularly popular in the United States. Half of all large-sized clocks produced in Germany are exported.
German leather manufacturers supply a wide selection of goods. German leather goods sell well in the United States because of their careful workmanship and constant adjustment to American taste. The leather goods industry is concentrated in the city of Offenbach and in the areas of Wuerttemberg, Franconia and Upper Bavaria. Of the 90 million dollars production in 1950, Offenbach leather goods accounted for the major share.
German toys are especially famous. No other nation has given so much attention to the study of children’s play and toys. Educators, scientists and technicians have joined in studying the world of children with the result that German toys have a unique appeal. The German toy manufacturer studies children, their habits and surroundings. Trained specialists then put his ideas and observations to work and create the mechanical, chemical and electric toys whose novelty, attention to precise details and colorful workmanship have time and again conquered the world market.
Perhaps the most characteristic of German products is beer. German beer is brewed differently in different parts of the country. Some experts can even tell from one sip the exact method of brewing and the different qualities of the respective kinds of beer. Germans have been brewing beer for 1200 years and have produced a wide variety of top quality beverages. German wine is also world famous. The recognized “King of wines” is Rhine wine followed closely by Moselle. But other wines are not far behind. The sunny valleys of the Saar, Ruwer, Nahe and Aar, produce wines which will always be popular. Local specialties of international reputation are grown on the slopes of the southern Black Forest, in Wuerttemberg and the hills of Franconia.
Since the end of World War II Germany has been making a consistent effort to develop her tourist industry. Not only are the American dollars welcome but the opportunity to see Germany often results in a better understanding of its problems and aspirations. Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers bring thousands of Americans to Germany each year to enjoy themselves and to learn a little more about this