Pa tv American
IVorid	Airways Teacher
GERMANY
A SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	PROBLEM:
How does the Germany of today compare
with the Germany of the past?
1.1.	Reason for Selection:
1.	Students are continuously hearing and reading about the four zones in Germany.
2.	Many students have members of their families, or friends, who are or were with the armed forces in Germany.
3.	Any study of literature, music, art or science would not be complete without reference to Germans famous in these particular fields.
4.	Konrad Adenauer’s visit to the United States.
5.	There are so many famous spots, historic and otherwise, that many have heard or read about.
6.	It is important that pupils know something of the causes and results of World War I and World War II and the part Germany played in these.
2.	PROBABLE DURATION:—3 weeks
3.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
3.1.	Approach:
1.	Use of varied news items containing information on:
a.	refugees fleeing from the Russian Zone
b.	recent happenings in other zones
c.	new industrial improvements in Germany
d.	arguments about the Peace Contract and the rearming of Germany
2.	In music class the music of many German composers could be played to the class and the pupils asked to find out more about them.
3.	Names which pupils have heard or read about, such as: Hitler, Kaiser, the three B’s, Berlin air lift, Steinmetz, Schurz; might be placed on the board. Discussions about these would lead to an interest in finding out other facts.
4.	A movie or strip film on Germany before World War I and on Germany today.
5.	Display of articles made in Germany.
6.	Stories of World War I and World War II.
7.	Pictures of places of interest and famous people are easily obtainable and would help to create interest.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What is going on inside Germany today?
2.	How has the Marshall Plan helped Germany?
3.	How much of the German culture has found its way to America?
4.	What were the effects of World War I and World War II on Germany and the rest of the world?
5.	What is the German Federal Republic and how does it function?
6.	How much have German immigrants contributed to the growth of the United States?
4.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
4.1. Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies: geographic influences, effects of strategic location, climatic factors, effects of resources on lives of people, locational facts such as: 4 zones, largest cities, capitals, lakes, rivers, Black Forest, important trade centers, neighboring-countries, natural resources; facts about the government of the present and past including a knowledge of such names as Kaiser Wilhelm, Hitler, Von Hindenberg, Bismarck, Adenauer; changes in industry brought about by division into zones, a knowledge of the characteristics of the German people, exports, imports, and trade relations with the United States; historical places, products for which Germany is famous such as mechanical instruments, cameras, binoculars, china, glassware; immigrants who helped the U. S. such as Schurz, Einstein, Steinmetz, Robert Wagner. (Social Studies material will be found in the following pages).
2.	Language Arts: new words which come up while working out the unit. Many of these are listed in this issue. Many German words have become part of our everyday language. Spelling: some words from the new vocabulary list and others needed in working out the unit.
Oral communication: interviewing should be an important part of this unit, explaining pictures, reporting on travel folders, telling the story of a musical composition, telling a famous fairy story, reviewing a book listed in the bibliography, telling the contents of an article about Germany, thoughts that come to mind as the children listen to some of the records or piano selections.
Written communication: stories of famous German composers, writers, scientists; reports on a specific problem, letters asking for information, planning a'vacation in Germany, describing a visit to a famous Cathedral or art gallery, a description of a concert or the Passion Play, an imaginary story of a child attending a performance of one of the great German composers, a resume of a trip up the Rhine or an air trip to Germany.
Literature: reread and retell some of the Fairy Tales by Jacob and Wil-
helm Grimm; Christian Felix Weisse wrote many lyrics for children, stories like the Nuremberg Stove, Thomas Mann and some of his books, “Magic Mountain”, “Joseph and His Brothers”, “Joseph in Egypt”; some facts about Goethe and his writings, something about Luther and the Bible, read some of the books listed in the bibliography.
Science: there is a good deal which can be taken in connection with a study of Germany for much of scientific value has come to us from there. Steinmetz and his work with Edison, Einstein, beginning of flight with Lilienthal continuing with Count Von Zeppelin, Daimler and the beginning of automobiles, medical research, scientific instruments, German chemists, precision instruments such as cameras, binoculars, microscopes, telescopes, clocks, pocket watches invented by Henlein, reasons for concentration in Ruhr, Rhine and Saar valleys, origin of the name “Black Forest,” uses of potash, discovery of dyes, use of synthetic materials, effects of climate on people and industry.
Health: German folk dances, special German foods, many famous doctors, William G. Kerckhoff Institute for Research of Heart Disease, German athletes, school gymnasiums, famous spas like Baden-Baden.
Music: this would be a most important part of the unit since there were so many famous German composers. Records, piano and instrumental selections of: Robert Schumann, Johannes Brahms, Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frederick Handel, Johann, Georg and Leopold Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Bartholdy Mendelssohn, Richard Wagner, etc. Many of the children are familiar with Traumeri, The Messiah, Moonlight Sonata, Tristen and Isolde and others. Some can play works of these composers. Famous German folk songs may be found in school songbooks.
Art: woodcarving, work on china and glass, famous “Dresden” figurines, work of Begas Karl, portrait painter. Work on paintings and construction giving children’s impressions of what they have read, seen, and heard about Germany as they complete their study.
Mathematics: money exchange, German mark, change in value in th( last 20 years, cost of trip to German} and expenses there, graphs of variations in trade, in past and present Germany, graphs showing comparison of population in each zone, travel time by Pan American Clipper 16 hours, by ship 9 days, changes in time.
(Continued on page 11)