Pa tv American
World Airways Teacher
RHINE RIVER—The castles on the Rhine have been there for many years, and contribute much to the beauty of a trip along the river.

graphical basis for a united political program was established and the German Federal Republic came into being.
The German Federal Republic was born with the adoption of a temporary constitution in May, 1949. The constitution united the three western zones of occupation both politically and economically. Berlin, the former German capital is surrounded on all sides by the Soviet Zone and is divided into four sectors of occupation. The Russian Sector of the city is at present administered separately from the American-British-French Sector.
The temporary capital of the country is located at Bonn, a small university town on the left bank of the Rhine not far from Cologne. A Supreme Court and a. Supreme Constitution Court are located in Karlsruhe. A president is elected by parliament for a term of five years. He in turn appoints a chancellor, who is nominated by the parliament, and whom he is obligated to dismiss on recommendation of the same body. The president represents the German people in matters of international law, and appoints and dismisses civil servants. The basis of the country’s federal type government are individual Lander which are somewhat comparable to states. The cabinets of the Lander however have reserved certain powers, such as setting income-tax rates, which are practiced by the Federal Government as well as the states in this country. Lander send representatives to an Upper House or Bundesrat located in Bonn. West Berlin sends representatives to the Bundestag, but it has not been given the full status of a land as yet.
The separation of the eastern part of the country from the rest of the nation and the total socialization of the Russian Zone has
forced the economy of the western part to undergo many changes. The part of Germany now living under Communist rule was formerly the principal source of the food supply. Eastern Germany supplied not only grain and potatoes, but also meat, eggs, vegetables and fruits. The area east of the Oder-Neisse rivers (presently administered by Poland) fed 16% of the total population.
Next to Denmark and Plolland this area was the scene of the most intensified farming activity in Europe. Western Germany today produces only 60% of the food supply for its 50 million people. Thus it is necessary to import 1.3 billion dollars worth of foodstuffs, and this amounts to 41% of total imports. Modernization of agricultural methods made possible with Marshall Plan funds from the United States has played an important part in increasing the food supply available within Germany.
In addition, with special funds supplied by the Marshall Plan, a technical service was founded to collect information about the newest technical advances in the field of agriculture and to use this information in training courses and for counseling farmers.
Many cities have cleared away the major portion of debris remaining after wartime bombing activities. It is estimated however, that it will take ten years to complete the process. The rubble already cleared away would make a wall 150 feet wide and 60 feet high stretching for 500 miles. There also remains the tremendous program of creating housing facilities for workers which cannot be completed in less than ten years. Refugees streaming across the East-West Germany border into Western Germany complicate the problem still further.
German industry has been increasing slowly and steadily. The country is once
again seeking to gain a firm place in the world market. Today more than ever, western Germany is dependent on export, prin-,^^ cipally because of the loss of large areas of ^—-agrian land and the burden of an unnatural population increase of nine million people.
Due to a relaxation of the controls originally placed on export trade by the occupation authorities and to the Marshall Plan, which foresaw Germany’s cooperation with other Marshall Plan countries in expanding trade-relations, Germany’s export figures have boomed. Trade agreements have been signed with fifteen countries. A trade agreement has also been signed in England which includes twenty-one participating nations.
Germany lias much that is in demand for trading with the rest of the world. The Ruhr area, for example, equal in size to Pittsburgh, Detroit and West Virginia, is the greatest industrial center of Europe. Six million people are concentrated in the region living in a string of large cities which almost touch each other. Their chief employment is in coal mining and the production of iron and steel and auxiliary industries. The coal produced in the Ruhr at an annual rate of about one billion dollars, is especially wvell suited as blast furnace coke. Therefore a. steel industry settled close to the coal mines instead of hauling its iron ore from a distance. In an endless chain, the iron and steel works extend from Krefeld in the West to Hamm in the East, from the rivers Lippe and Ruhr in the North to the Wupper in the South. Iron and steel products, ranging from pig iroiv to thin wire play an exceedingly important role in German exports. In 1950 exports of such products amounted to 250 million dollars. German steel pipes and malleable cast iron, sheet iron and rails, scrap iron, bar mill products and section iron as well as many other steel and iron products are playing an important part in supplying American industry. A considerable proportion of the products of the German chemical industry are based on chemicals derived from coal. An American traveling through the Ruhr and other centers of German heavy industry can see at first hand the role that the many hundreds of foundries, rolling mills, forging mills, hammer works and pressing plants play in assisting American industry and the American defense effort.
German chemists have long been famous the world over for their ingenuity. They first extracted gasoline from coal; produced the first synthetic rubber; and developed the aniline dyes which took the place of some expensive natural dyes. The innumerable drugs developed in Germany have played important parts in the chemical and medical fields. Sulfuric acid and plastics, essential oils and staple fiber, tannin, chemicals used in photography, coal tar dyes, drugs, fertilizers and thousands of other products of the German chemical industry regularly flow to the United States in large quantities.
The wide variety of products of the German machine and machine tool industry, which are of special interest to the United States, range from the smallest calculating machine to the mightiest steam locomotive. Germany produces textile machinery, leather processing machines, agricultural machines, power engines and pumps, compressed air