Pan American
10
the last fateful battle of World War II when the Russians fought their way from Moscow to meet the Western powers in the last struggle against the German armies. Four years later however, the United States proved that right combined with “knowhow” is stronger than might. At a staggering expense, thousands of flights were made from western Germany to the isolated western zone of Berlin. On the first day of July in 1948, the first load of coal was flown in, and only three weeks later the ten-thousandth airplane had landed in Berlin. After the blockade was lifted on the twelfth of May, it was learned that in the space of 300 clays, 233,381 flights had been made and 1.7 million tons of freight had been transported by air. All flights were witnessed by millions of Germans who lived on the route of flight in the western zones and in the Soviet zone. So exactly were they carried out, at intervals of V/i to 2 minutes, that people stated that they could have checked the accuracy of a timepiece against the roar of the motors. On the average, 750 planes filled with cargo crossed the sky daily.
Each plane in the Berlin Airlift convinced the German people more and more that the United States wanted to help them and that they would not be abandoned in time of crisis. Each American traveler in Germany is proof that we are willing to try to build a workable relationship with that nation. Each purchase of a German product enables the nation’s people to rebuild their economy and regain enough strength to stand on their own feet. A strong but understanding United States will undoubtedly be able to develop and sustain relations between our two countries.
Germany is also rich in history. All around are remnants of more than 2000 years of culture. The country has always been a focal point for the great cultural trends of the ages. During Biblical times, the Romans were the “Occupation power” in conquered Germania. They built fortresses and laid foundations for great cities like Cologne, Trier, Mainz, Regensburg, Augsburg. In succeeding centuries, the French, the Swedes, the British, the Danes, the Spanish, the Dutch, the Italians and the Hungarians crossed Germany in military expeditions. None however left any permanent stamp on the country as the German character reasserted itself time after time. In olden times various German dynasties promoted art and erected world famous churches, castles and other monuments still to be seen today. German churches, examples of Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque architecture, are among the most beautiful in the world. There is also the statue of Roland the Giant in front of the city hall in Bremen; famous sights in Munich; and a string of castles, monasteries, cathedrals,
MUNICH—The manufacture of china aud porcelain figurines is a leading industry of Bavaria.
MUNICH—A German artist puts the finishing touches on a piece of fine hand painted china.
enigma of Europe. From Germany’s seaside resorts of the Baltic and the North Sea to the Alpine lakes there are endless opportunities for all types of sports. There is swimming, sailing, riding, hiking, rowing, tennis, golf and bowling. In winter there is ice skating, hockey, bob sledding and skiing. The country is a hobbiest’s paradise. There are stamps, pipes, valuable cut' glass, old paintings, medieval woodcarving, oddly-shaped rocks, and precious coins. The country is also famous for its spas, rest centers and mineral baths noted for their success in restoring health and enabling people to relax.
old fortresses and medieval towns extending across the country.
No visit to Germany is complete however without a trip to Berlin. No story of Berlin is complete without an account of the Airlift. In 1945, the city was the scene of