PanAmfr/can
10 Germany
Old World Lands—Barrows-Parker-Soren-son—Silver Burdett
Rambles in Europe—Peattie—American Book Co.
Foreign Lands and Peoples—Smith—Winston
Our Neighbors in America & Europe— Jansen-Alien—Ginn
The Nations at Work—Packard-Sinnott-Overton—Macmillan
History of the German General Staff— Goertez—Praeger
Richard Wagner: Who Followed a Star— Burch—Holt
A World View—Sorenson—Silver Burdett
The World and Its Trade Relations— Jansen-Alien—Ginn
Old World Past and Present—Campbell-Webb-Nida—Scott Foresman
Germany—Fouchter—Merrill
Geography of World Peoples—McConnell— Rand McNally
Old World & Its Gifts—Meyer-Hamer-Grisso—Follett
Geography of Lands Overseas—McConnell —Rand McNally
At Home on Our Earth—Whipple-James— Macmillan
Weekly News Review—March 10, 1952; May 19, 1952; Jan. 19, 1953.
Every Week—March 9-13, 1953
Pan American World Airways Teacher— May-June 1950
World Horizons—Pan American World Airways
For Further Information
German Tourist Information Office—500 Fifth Avenue, New York 36
German Consulate General—745 Fifth Ave. New York City.
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant
Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education Motion Pictures
(1)	Children of Germany, 13 min., Color, Black and White—Sound.
Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Wilmette, 111.
This film vividly portrays small town life in the Rhineland, one of the historic provinces of Western Germany. The film opens with a map showing the location of Germany in Europe and of the Rhineland in Germany. Then, in a beautiful panorama, we see a scenic part of the Rhineland province where two mountain ranges have narrowed the Rhine and made it a fast and dangerous river. In the course of its long history, many river towns and castles have grown up along the banks.
(2)	My Mill, 14 min., Sound—Black and White—Films of the Nations, 62 W. 45th St., New York, N. Y.
The story of a man who is retiring after working forty years in a steel rolling mill in the Ruhr Valley. His last day on the job serves as a review of the factory’s production processes from the pouring of ingots to the final making of rails and heavy wire. In spite of the man’s work and knowledge, the industry will go on without him.
(3)	Western Germany; An Introduction. 11 min., Sound—Black and White. Coronet Films, 65 East South Water St., Chicago 1, 111.
The industrial, agricultural, and commercial life of modern Western Germany
are described in relationship to the population, resources, and the soil. The importance of coal mining, trade, industrial development, and the manufacture of synthetic products to present day economy is emphasized.
(4)	People Without Places, 24 min., Sound —Black and White—American Council of Volunteer Agencies for Foreign Service, 20 West 40th St., New York, N. Y.
Produced by Erbest Kleinberg this film depicts the story of a young East German refugee boy who crosses the demarcation line on Berlin’s Potsdamer Plaza into the Western Zone. Describes the help which he receives from various American voluntary organizations which are working in cooperation with the West German Government and the United Nations, and shows how the boy is finally settled in a housing project in Hanover.
(5)	Germany Today, 27 min., Sound—Mc-Graw Hill Co., 330 West 42nd Street, New York
Produced by the March of Time, this film depicts the industrial and rebuilding programs of West Germany today.
Presenting the recovery which West Germany has effected since the close of World War II, this film surveys the industrial and rebuilding programs of West Germany, showing how the people have used their industrial and creative ability to develop coal and steel production and heavy equipment industries in the cause of the West. In housing and in rebuilding bombed out cities, too, West Germany is making progress. The film gives detailed coverage of the East German frontier and points to the growing tension between East and West Germany.
(6)	This Is the Saar—1952, 13 min., Sound —-Research Survey, Inc., 8 West 40th St., New York.
Presents the people and industries of the Saar Basin and their importance to the economy and peace of Europe.
(7)	Salzburg—1952,	18 min., Sound-
Gateway Productions, Inc., 1859 Powell St., San Francisco, Cal.
We see the famous music festival at Salzburg, the birthplace of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. This film captivates the atmosphere of the composer’s time and the symphonies of Mozart serve appropriately as musical background.
(8) Germany—1952,	19 min., Sound— United World-Government Films, 1445 Park Avenue, New York.
This film produced by the United States Navy, shows Western Germany under allied protection.
(9)	Romantic Rothenburg—1951, 18 min., Sound—Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
A good tourist’s eye view of, the ancient city of Rothenburg in Bavaria, Germany. The picture deals interestingly with the architecture and traditions of this well preserved medieval city. Every year at Festival time the people enact their traditional history in traditional costumes. Scenes from the “Festival Plays” and the Shepherd’s Dance are portrayed.
WEICKERSHEIN—Cathedral at Weickersh'ein—gates in the foreground are the entrance to the church yard.