Pa/v Am errcan
8 Germany	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
.ASGOW

■MSTERD,

YORK
Literature: reread and retell some of the Fairy Tales by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm; Christian Felix Weisse wrote many lyrics for children, stories like the Nuremberg Stove, Thomas Mann and some of his books, “Magic Mountain”, “Joseph and His Brothers”, “Joseph in Egypt”; some facts about Goethe and his writings, something about Luther and the Bible, read some of the books listed in the bibliography.
Science: there is a good deal which can be taken in connection with a study of Germany for much of scientific value has come to us from there. Steinmetz and his work with Edison, E'ihstein and the Atom, beginning of flight with Lilienthal continuing with Count Von Zeppelin, Daimler and the beginning of automobiles, medical research, scientific instruments, German chemists, precision instruments such as cameras, binoculars, microscopes, telescopes, clocks, pocket watches invented by Henlein, reasons for concentration in Ruhr, Rhine and Saar valleys, origin of the name “Black Forest,” uses of potash, discovery of dyes, use of synthetic materials, effects of climate on people and industry.
Health: German folk dances, special German foods, many famous doctors, William G. Kerckhoff Institute for Research of Heart Disease, German athletes, school gymnasiums, famous spas like Baden-Baden.
Music: this would be a most important part of the unit since there were so many famous German composers. Records, piano and instrumental selections of: Robert Schumann, Johannes Brahms, Johann Sebastian Bach, George Frederick Handel, Johann, Georg and Leopold Mozart, Ludwig van Beethoven, Bartholdy Mendelssohn, Richard Wagner, etc. Many of the children are familiar with Traumeri, The Messiah, Moonlight Sonata, Tristen and Isolde and others. Some can play works of these composers. Famous German folk songs may be found in school songbooks.
Art: woodcarving, work on china and glass, famous “Dresden” figurines, work of Begas Karl, portrait painter. Work on paintings and construction giving children’s impressions of what they have read, seen, and heard about Germany as they complete their study.
Mathematics: money exchange, German mark, change in value in the last 20 years, cost of trip to Germany and expenses there, graphs of variations in trade in past and present Germany, graphs showing comparison of population in each zone, travel time by Pan American Clipper 16 hours, by ship 9 days, changes in time.
4.2.	Skills:
In this unit it might be a good idea to concentrate on interviewing and critical thinking. Facts in various books will differ and good judgment will be necessary. Discussion skills might also be emphasized in this unit since the pupils have certainly heard many stories on the pros and cons of Germany.
4.3.	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings:
A realization of the changes which have taken place in Germany.
An understanding of German people and their concentration on rebuilding their country and of their post war problems.
The significance of Germany in the world community of nations.
An interest in American relations with Germany.
An appreciation of the music and literature which has come to us from Germany.
An appreciation of the technical and precision work for which Germany has always been famous.
5.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
1.	Collection of post cards, travel folders, scenic views, of Germany.
2.	Plan a sightseeing tour in Germany.
3.	See how many records of famous German musicians the class can collect. Plan a concert.
4.	An exhibit of many articles children have in their homes which come from Germany.
5.	A visit from a parent born in Germany or a relative who served there in the armed forces.
6.	Post names of Germans from various walks of life and have class identify them. Use quiz of this sort as an assembly program.
7.	Read some of the books listed in the bibliography and tell about them. A child who reads a story about a famous musician might tell it before the record is played.
8.	See movies and strip films suggested in this issue.
9.	Watch the papers for news of music festivals, passion play, etc.
6.	CULMINATION:
A concert for an assembly program modeled after the radio and television programs where a narrator tells the life of the composer and something of the composition before it is heard by the audience.
Make slides of famous places in Germany and take the assembly on a tour.
Make scrap books of current events about Germany and pictures of famous people past and present.
Any of the items in #5 might be used as a culmination.
7.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION:
1. Books, magazines, pictures, as many
as possible.
2.	Articles from Germany.
3.	Travel folders.
4.	Audio-Visual aids.
5.	Maps and globes.
6.	Personnel
8. LEADS TO NEW UNITS:
After a study of Germany the children might be interested in some of the countries surrounding Germany.
Look over this list of words. It will help you to understand the reading matter.
aviline
baroque
beige
binoculars
category
chancellor
conjunction
base from which coal tar dyes are made irregular in shape; architecture of early 18th century a natural color telescope or opera glass used for two eyes at once a description of things of the same class molding and baking in clay
a high officer of a state joined together, combination
contingent
counseling
cutlery
debris
embraces
enigma
figurines
foundries
fusion
gastronomical
ingenuity
isolated
lush
malleable
niche
nostalgic
obstreperous
pewter
pharmaceutical
pivot
portals
precision
predominantly
profound
prosperous
radiant
requisite
rubble
serene
soirees
spas
spectral
thermal
ubiquitous
dependent upon an uncertain future event consulting, advising cutting instruments ruins includes puzzles
small, painted single or attached figures, small statues
where articles are cast from metal
state of change, blending eating good food cleverness in originating detached full, abundant can be hammered or rolled out without breaking a recessed space or hollow
homesick
making a disturbance, unruly
tin and lead mixture relating to things sold in drug stores
something on which a matter hinges or turns gates, entranceways strictly accurate stronger, more influence thorough, deep thinking successful
bright, beaming with light
necessary, required pieces, broken things clear, calm, peaceful evening parties mineral springs ghostly, images formed by rays of light measured by heat always present
There is much to learn and remember