Pan American
World Ammys Teacher	Germany n
GERMANY
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PA A Travel Guide “New Horizons”
LOCATION . . . Germany is in the very heart of Europe, located between the Baltic Sea and the North Sea to the north and the Alps to the south. Frankfurt is about 400 air miles from London, less than 300 miles from Paris, and about 3,900 air miles from New York The distance between Berlin, largest German city, and London is 700 air miles.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Nothing has changed the basic beauty of Germany: glorious scenery, art treasures, entertainment such as stage plays, music, gay folk festivals, and quaint ancient customs. In many ways, Germany is at present a most interesting part of Europe: the progress the country has made since 1945 in reconstruction is phenomenal. The German people have a true desire to make the tourist happy and comfortable.
POPULATION . . . Western Germany has a population of some 48,000,000, roughly one-third that of the United States, while in the entire country there are approximately 69,000,000 people.
SIZE . . . The area of Western Germany is about 93,600 square miles, about the size of New York and Pennsylvania combined. The entire country occupies about 182,000 square miles, an area not quite four times that of New York State.
CAPITAL . . . Bonn, a city of 120,000, on the Rhine is the present capital of the Federal Republic of Germany—Deutsche Bundesrepublik, as West Germany is officially called. The former German capital, Berlin, largest city in the country, has a population of 3,200,000 about a half million fewer than Chicago.
GOVERNMENT . . . Western Germany is a Federal Republic with a legislative body of two houses.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By Pan American Clipper, New York via London to Frankfurt, about 16 hours (elapsed time), 21 hours from Chicago via Detroit. Frequent local service via Pan American between Frankfort and Berlin, Hamburg, Stuttgart, Hanover, Cologne, Duesseldorf, Munich and Vienna. By ship, about 9 days from New York to Hamburg or Bremen.
(10)	Oberamergau—1951, 18 min., Sound— Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
In this charming film we travel to Bavaria in South Germany to the quaint village of Oberamergau, scene of the famous Passion Play. We not only tour Oberamergau and the nearby village of Mittenburg, but also visit the Passion Play Theatre and meet the townsfolk: the performers in this famous presentation.
(11)	The Angels of Dinkelsbuhl—1951, 18 min., Sound—Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y-.
In the German province of Bavaria is Dinkelsbuhl. This charming town still retains its air of the middle age in its cobble-stoned streets, walls, turrets and quaint architecture. The film shows the “Thanksgiving Festival” when the townsfolk enact their famous “Children’s Play”, depicting how the children saved the town from razing by the Spanish Army during the Thirty Years’ War.
(12)	The Grand Duchy—1951, 18 min., Sound—Fleetwood Films, Inc., 10 Fiske Place, Mount Vernon, N. Y.
Perched high on its rocky crag and surrounded on all sides by deep valleys is Luxembourg City, picturesque capital of the proud State of Luxembourg. The tour of the Duchy includes a visit to the Moselle River Valley at the time of the colorful grape and wine harvest.
(13)	Glimpses of Picturesque Germany— 1952, 25 min., Sound—Films of the Nations, 62 West 45th Street, N. Y.
Folklore festivals along the Rhine, in the Black Forest and Bavaria are shown. To the accompaniment of German music we see a festival in native costume and the famous dances of the country. We take a trip through the vineyards of the Moselle and along the Rhine.
(14)	Berlin Masterpieces—1950, 20 min., Sound—National Film Distributors, 112 West 48th Street, N. Y.
In this film, with Basil Rathbone narrating the commentary, 16 paintings are shown of the group from the art museums of Berlin which toured the United States in 1949. Paintings included are: Durer’s Hieronymus Holzschuher; Van Der Weyden’s Portrait of a Young Woman; Van Cleve’s A Young Man; Patinit’s Flight into Egypt; Vermeer’s Pearl Necklace; Vermeer’s Lady and Gentleman Drinking Wine; Hals’ Singing Boy with a Flute; Hals’ Malle Babbe; Carpaccio’s Simon etta Vespucci; Raphael’s Madonna and Child; Titan’s Venus and the Organ Player; Cranach’s Lucretia; Botticelli’s Venus; Corregio’s Leda and the Swan.
Filmstrips
(1)	Comeback for Germany, 60 frames si Black and White— New York Times, Times Bldg., New York, N. Y. Examines the impact of West Germany’s resurgence on various world capitals. The differing attitudes of the U. S., Britain and France, where the issue is still burning, are assessed. Other elements of the filmstrip dealing with Russia take on timely signifi-
cance because of the shifts in the Kremlin, which stem to a large degree from the German rearmament issue. A substantial part of the filmstrip examines the revival of West Germany in a decade. Looking back at the ashes and rubble of 1945 and the heritage of earlier wars, the filmstrip takes up the factors in the bootstrap advance of West Germany to its current industrial and economic strength.
(2)	Factories, Mines and Waterways, Industrial Western Europe. 50 frames with captions Black and White—si United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York 29, N. Y.
This is one of the Earth and Its People Series. The filmstrip describes the trip of the Caducee, one of the many barges that carry heavy raw materials over inland waterways. At Strasbourg on the Rhine River, Captain Oberfeld takes on a cargo of coal bound for Pont-a-Mousson. On the barge, the Captain’s whole family has special duties. Madame Oberfeld and the eldest daughter do the housework. Son is the engineer, and takes turns at wheel. Canal traffic is slowed at towns as barges go through locks. Madame Oberfeld then goes ashore to buy supplies. In larger cities, barges carry chemicals to manufacturing plants; others bring sands and clay to potteries and glassworks. At busy Pont-a-Mousson, The Caducee unloads at a coking plant. Nearby, other barges and freight cars unload iron ore from smelting plants. From red-hot blast furnaces, molten iron is poured into many different molds. These are the iron and steel products that serve the needs of industrial Europe and the world.
(3)	Germany, 35 frames si with captions— Young America Films, 18 E. 41st St., New York City.
One of the Family of the World Series. A complete photographic story of a farm family showing the way of life among people around the world. Woven through the filmstrips are the basic themes common to the daily life of all mankind.
(4)	People Are People Series, Young America Films, 18 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y.
Six filmstrips based on a series of picture-stories prepared by Ladies’ Home Journal. The filmstrips follow the daily lives of 12 rural families—in the United States, England, Africa, China, Mexico, Japan, Pakistan, Egypt, Czechoslovakia, France, Germany and Italy—and are organized around themes of Food, Shelter, Education, etc-., as shown in titles below:
Part 1 (44 frames) The Twelve Families; How They Farm; Their Food Part 2 (30 frames) How They Shop; Their Kitchens
Part 3 (30 frames) How They Bathe; At Bedtime
Part 4 (30 frames) How They Play; Their Laundry
Part 5 (30 frames) How They Get Around; How They Worship
Part 6 (30 frames) How They Study; At Home
Kodachrome Slides
Sets of 2" x 2" color slides available from European Art Color Slide Co., 201 West 82nd Street, New York.
German Painters:
Cranach, Lucas, the Elder Durer, Albrecht Grünewald, Mathis Neithart Isenmann, Gaspard Schongauer, Martin