Pan Amer rCAiv
Worid Airways Teacher	Germany 7
made from western Germany to the isolated western zone of Berlin. On the first day of July in 1948, the first load of coal was flown in, and only three weeks later the ten-thousandth airplane had landed in Berlin. After the blockade was lifted on the twelfth of May, it was learned that in the space of 300 days, 233,381 flights had been made and 1.7 million tons of freight had been transported by air. All flights were witnessed by millions of Germans who lived on the route of flight in the western zones and in the Soviet zone. So exactly were they carried out, at intervals of 1J4 to 2 minutes, that people stated that they could have checked the accuracy of a timepiece against the roar of the motors. On the average, 750 planes filled with cargo crossed the sky daily.
Each plane in the Berlin Airlift convinced the German people more and more that the United States wanted to help them and that they would not be abandoned in time of crisis. Each American traveler in Germany is proof that we are willing to try to build a workable relationship with that nation. Each purchase of a German product enables the nation’s people to rebuild their economy and regain enough strength to stand on their own feet. A strong but understanding United States will undoubtedly be able to develop and sustain relations between our two countries.
DINKELSBUHL is a town of about 5,000 in western Germany, an agricultural center as may be observed from the load of hay being pulled through the street by oxen.
GERMANY
A SUGGESTED STUDY UNIT By Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	PROBLEM:
How does the Germany of today compare with the Germany of the past?
1.1.	Reason for Selection:
1.	Students are continuously hearing and reading about the four zones in Germany.
2.	Many students have members of their families, or friends, who are or were with the armed forces in Germany.
3.	Any study of literature, music, art or science would not be complete without reference to Germans famous in these particular fields.
4.	Major power decisions and re-establishment of Western Germany.
5.	- There are so many famous spots,
historic and otherwise, that many have heard or read about.
6.	It is important that pupils know something of the causes and results of World War I and World War II and the part Germany played in these.
2.	PROBABLE DURATION:—3 weeks
3.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
3.1.	Approach:
1.	Use of varied news items containing information on:
a.	Konrad Adenauer
b.	recent happenings in meetings of major powers regarding the future of Western Germany.
c.	new industrial improvement in Germany
d.	arguments about the Peace Contract and the rearming of Germany. Plans for the new German Army
2.	In music class the music of many German composers could be played to the class and the pupils asked to find out more about them.
3.	Names which pupils have heard or read about, such as: Hitler, Kaiser, the three B’s, Berlin air lift, Steinmetz, Schurz, Adenauer; might be placed on the board. Discussions about these would lead to an interest in finding out other facts
4.	A movie or strip film on Germany before World War I and on Germany today.
5.	Display of articles made in Germany.
6.	Stories of World WTar I and World War II.
7.	Pictures of places of interest and famous people are easily obtainable and would help to create interest.
3.2.	Subsidiary Problems:
1.	What is going on inside Germany today?
2.	How has the Marshall Plan helped Germany?
3.	How much of the German culture has found its way to America?
4.	What were the effects of World War I and World War II on Germany and the rest of the world?
5.	What is the German Federal Republic and how does it function?
6.	How much have German immigrants contributed to the growth of the United States?
7.	What is the position of Germany in the world today?
4.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
4.1. Subject Matter:
1. Social Studies: geographic influences, effects of strategic location, climatic factors, effects of resources on lives of people, locational facts such as: 4 zones, largest cities, capitals, lakes, rivers, Black Forest, important trade centers, neighboring countries, natural resources; facts about the government of the present
and past including a knowledge of such names as Kaiser Wilhelm, Hitler, Von Hindenberg, Bismarck, Adenauer; changes in industry brought about by division into zones, a knowledge of the characteristics of the German people, exports, imports, and trade relations with the United States; historical places, products for which Germany is famous such as mechanical instruments, cameras, binoculars, china, glassware; immigrants who helped the U. S. such as Schurz, Einstein, Steinmetz, Robert Wagner. (Social Studies material will be found in the following pages). 2. Language Arts: new words which come up while working out the unit. Many of these are listed in this issue. Many German words have become part of our everyday language. Spelling: some words from the new vocabulary list and others needed in working out the unit.
Oral communication: interviewing should be an important part of this unit, explaining pictures, reporting on travel folders, telling the story of a musical composition, telling a famous fairy story, reviewing a book listed in the bibliography, telling the contents of an article about Germany, thoughts that come to mind as the children listen to some of the records or piano selections.
Written communication: stories of famous German composers, writers, scientists; reports on a specific problem, letters asking for information, planning a vacation in Germany, describing a visit to a famous Cathedral or art gallery, a description of a concert or the Passion Play, an imaginary story of a child attending a performance of one of the great German composers, a resume of a trip up the Rhine or an air trip to Germany.