Pay Am errcan
6 Germany
Germany is also rich in history. All around are remnants of more than 2000 years of culture. The country has always been a focal point for the great cultural trends of the ages. During Biblical times, the Romans were the “Occupation power” in conquered Germania. They built fortresses and laid foundations for great cities like Cologne, Trier, Mainz, Regensburg, Augsburg. In succeeding centuries, the French, the Swedes, the British, the Danes, the Spanish, the Dutch, the Italians and the Hungarians crossed Germany in military expeditions. None however left any permanent stamp on the country as the German character reasserted itself time after time. In olden times various German dynasties promoted art and erected world famous churches, castles and other monuments still to be seen today. German churches, examples of Gothic, Renaissance and Baroque architecture, are among the most beautiful in the world. There is also the statue of Roland the Giant in front of the city hall in Bremen; famous sights in Munich; and a string of castles, monasteries, cathedrals, old fortresses and medieval towns extending across the country.
No visit to Germany is complete however without a trip to Berlin. No story of Berlin is complete without an account of the Airlift. In 1945, the city was the scene of the last fateful battle of World War II when the Russians fought their way from Moscow to meet the Western powers in the last struggle against the German armies. Four years later however, the United States proved that right combined with “knowhow” is stronger than might. At a staggering expense, thousands of flights were
Since the end of World War II Germany has been making a consistent effort to develop her tourist industry. Not only are the American dollars welcome but the opportunity to see Germany often results in a better understanding of its problems and aspirations. Pan American World Airways Flying Clippers bring thousands of Americans to Germany each year to enjoy themselves and to learn a little more about this enigma of Europe. From Germany’s seaside resorts of the Baltic and the North Sea to the Alpine lakes there are endless opportunities for all types of sports. There is swimming, sailing, riding, hiking, rowing, tennis, golf and bowling. In winter there is ice skating, hockey, bob sledding and skiing. The country is a hobbiest’s paradise.
The decorating on this china is the one used on the ceiling in the Castle Sanssouci of Frederic the Great.
THE RUHR—Center of the German heavy industry.
observations to work and create the mechanical, chemical and electric toys whose novelty, attention to precise details and colorful workmanship have time and again conquered the world market.
Perhaps the most characteristic of German products is beer. German beer is brewed differently in different parts of the country. Some experts can even tell from one sip the exact method of brewing and the different qualities of the respective kinds of beer. Germans have been brewing beer for 1200 years and have produced a wide variety of top quality beverages. German wine is also world famous. The recognized “Kin°; of wines” is Rhine wine followed closely by Moselle. But other wines are not far behind. The sunny valleys of the Saar, Ruwer, Nahe and Aar, produce wines which will always be popular. Local specialties of international reputation are grown on the slopes of the southern Black Forest, in Wuerttemberg and the hills of Franconia.
There are stamps, pipes, valuable cut glass, old paintings, medieval woodcarving, oddly-shaped rocks, and precious coins. The country is also famous for its spas, rest centers and mineral baths noted for their success in restoring health and enabling people to relax.