Pan Am errca nr
2 Germany	WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
HEIDELBERG—This is the university town, and the view in this photo shows the Neckar Valley, looking south from Heidelberg.
GERMANY INVITES YOU
By Enrique Portes
To enter Germany today, all you need is passport and visa—and dollars, of course.
You are in for some surprises, too. The recovery has been terrific.
Had you seen Germany even as late as 1948, your senses would refuse to believe in the Germany you see in 1953, five years later. The country is now a stimulating place to visit. Hotels, transportation systems, and comforts of living are as good as exist today almost anywhere in Europe. You will find comfortable places to stay in, good food to enjoy, good touring from one end of Western Germany to the other. Destroyed cities are, or are being, rebuilt; the scorched land of war years in summer and fall this year, will be a lush growth of fruit and flowers and grain. Nearly every requisite of happy travel is now reedy for you.
This, in spite of the fact that sixty-six million Germans, after a. terrible war, now find their homeland divided—eighteen million people in the Eastern or Russian zone, and forty-eight million of them in the Federal German Republic, or Western Germany. From every point of view, Germany is now ready to welcome you. The postal services, the sanitation, and all the public works are functioning normally. You can travel anywhere, receive a polite welcome wherever you wander—either because you are an American with dollars to spend, or because the German is traditionally an excellent host.
Here is one of the most industrious and efficient peoples of the world—a fact which cannot be denied. In spite of any personal prejudices which may still linger here and
there, even the severest critic has to recognize the fact that there is something admirable in the way the German worker has tackled the back-breaking problems of reconstruction, and succeeded.
In 1937, Germany occupied an area of approximately 138,000 square miles, somewhat smaller than the State of Montana. Western Germany covers today 95,000 square miles, or a bit less than the State of Oregon. Its capital is Bonn, a Rhineland city of about 100,000 population. The Eastern Zone, between the Oder and the Memel Rivers, is under Russian administration, while the Western Zone under American, British and French. The Federal Republic comprises Bavaria with Munich as its capital, Baden-Wuerttemberg with Stuttgart, Hesse with Wiesbaden, Rheinland-Pfalz with Mainz, North Rhein-Westphalia with Duesseldorf, Lower Saxony with Hanover, and Schleswig-Holstein with Kiel. The cities of Hamburg, Bremen and Berlin are included as states of the Federal Republic.
The Russian Zone of occupation embraces the center states of Germany, namely, Brandenburg with Potsdam as its capital, Mecklenburg with Schwerin, Saxony-Anhalt with Halle, Saxony with Dresden, and Thuringia with Weimar. This zone called the German Democratic Republic has as its seat of government the eastern sector of Berlin.
Exciting Berlin
In many ways Berlin is one of the most exciting cities of Europe these days. In order to enter Berlin by automobile or rail-
way, you have to cross the Soviet zone and a Soviet visa, therefore, is required. Since such visas are almost impossible to obtain, the air route is preferable—and it is quicker and most efficient. This city of 3,200,000 people'—about a quarter of a million less than Chicago—is divided in four sectors. In the American, British and French sectors there are about 2,400,000 people. There is tension in the city, no doubt of it. However, you will find lots of fun and excitement. Its most famous street is a mass of neon lights, packed with busy shops, cafés, cabarets, restaurants, theatres and movie houses. The Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra is an outstanding organization, its concerts and opera season are famous indeed. Yet Berlin, according to every book you can read, leads a strange double life. It has two police forces, two fire departments, two postal and telephone systems, two kinds of money, two types of automobile plates.
Frankly, you might be more interested in traveling in the Western zone of Germany. Bavaria, with its Alpine scenery, is probably the loveliest section of Germany. Here you’ll find Garmisch Pertenkirchen, the finest skiing spot in the country. It is dominated by the famed Zugspitze. A cog-wheel railway takes you in one hour and 40 minutes right up to Germany’s highest peak of 9,727 feet.
Munich, the capital of Bavaria, though heavily damaged during the war, is very much alive today. It is the greatest art center of Free Germany; State opera, theatres, and cultural attractions have come back with a bang. There are real-life princes and princesses if you care to know; they are the leaders of the fairy-tale society. The fact that most of the Bavarian castles surrounding Munich are still in possession of the original owners, has made Munich the grand ball-room of the post-war German society. Here are held even now the most impressive soirees, the terribly chic nights at the opera, the gayest fancy dress balls.
Munich is the perfect jump-off spot for the most interesting and, lovely parts of the country, to the smaller cities, towns and hamlets. To Kinkelsbiihl, a picturesque town of timbered houses which was walled, moated and fortified more than 1000 years ago, and which has even now the air of a medieval market place. Or you may choose among the better spas Wiesbaden, founded by the Romans 2000 years ago and noted for its thermal springs, or go to Bayreuth, north of Nuremberg, famous for its architecture and its Wagnerian Festivals. Bayreuth, the birthplace, home and burial place of the composer Wagner, has long ranked with Salzburg in Austria, and Edinburgh in Scotland, among Europe’s leading music centers.
And, of course, you’ll never miss that famous cruise along the Rhine River (certainly one of the loveliest trips in Europe) from Cologne, where the world’s largest Gothic cathedral can be found, to Bonn, birthplace of Beethoven, then to Coblenz, at the junction of the Moselle and the Rhine, and up the river past the famous castles, ruins and vineyards, crossing medieval villages such as Boppard, St. Goar, past the