Pan AmEnrcAN
4 Germany _________________World Airways Teacher
GERMANY - ITS ECONOMY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
Situated in the heart of Europe, Germany has always exercised a profound influence on the political and economic life of the Continent. A prosperous Germany has meant a prosperous Europe and an unsettled Germany has meant an uneasy Continent. The interest of the United States in Germany is as great as our interest in the establishment of a peaceful Europe. World Wars I and II are part of the past. Germany is part of everyone’s future, and as such is deserving of all possible cooperation and understanding.
With the end of World War II Germany’s structure was completely changed as a consequence of her defeat. Her present borders are temporary in nature, but how temporary nobody knows. The portion of the country lying east of the Oder and Neisse rivers was put under Polish administration. Königsberg, the city in which Prussian monarchs were crowned, and the surrounding territory were annexed by the Soviet Union. In the West, the Saar was economically separated from Germany and placed under an administration independent of that of the rest of the country.
The remaining territory was divided into four zones of occupation. Russia took
over control of central Germany. The British forces assumed control of northern Germany, which is important for its harbors and the industrial area of the Ruhr. The French occupied south-western Germany from Lake Constance to Coblenz on the Rhine. The American forces assumed responsibility for the southern section of the country from Frankfurt to Berchtesgaden. The city of Bremen was also declared to be under American jurisdiction. Therefore, including the territory under Polish administration there were five foreign administrations in Germany after 1945, and as many armies of occupation, plus contingents of Dutch, Belgian, Norwegian and Danish troops.
Within a short period of time however, the United States and its other Western Allies realized that Germany’s eventual cooperation in a union composed of the free nations of the world was highly desirable. After the three governments of the United States, France and Great Britain agreed on a common program for Germany designed to foster economic reconstruction, Great Britain and the United States effected a union of their two zones. With the fusion of the French zone, the economic and geo-
graphical basis for a united political program was established and the German Federal Republic came into being.
The German Federal Republic was born with the adoption of a temporary constitution in May, 1949. The constitution united the three western zones of occupation both politically and economically. During 1954 full German sovereignty was restored subject to certain arms restrictions including a ban on the manufacture of atomic or biological weapons. Germany was brought into the defense mechanism of Western Europe and made a member of NATO, bringing with her 12 motorized divisions (about 500,000 men). A Franco-German Agreement concerning the Saar was also signed under which that area would remain effectively under French control.
The eastern section of Germany, administered by the Russians is known as the German Democratic Republic. Berlin, the former national capital, is similarly divided into a Western and Eastern half, neither of which has been fully integrated as yet into the respective German states.
The temporary capital of Western Germany is located at Bonn, a small university town on the left bank of the Rhine not far •from Cologne. A Supreme Court and a Supreme Constitution Court are located in Karlsruhe. A president is elected by parliament for a term of five years. He in turn appoints a chancellor, who is nominated by the parliament, and whom he is obligated to dismiss on recommendation of the same body. The president represents the German people in matters of international law, and appoints and dismisses civil servants. The basis of the country’s federal type government are individual Lander which are somewhat comparable to states. The cabinets of the Lander however have reserved certain powers, such as setting income-tax rates, which are practiced by the Federal Government as well as the states in this country. Lander send representatives to an Upper House or Bundesrat located in Bonn. West Berlin sends representatives to the Bundestag, but it has not been given the full status of a land as yet.
The separation of the eastern part of the country from the rest of the nation and the total socialization of the Russian Zone has forced the economy of the western part to undergo many changes. The part of Germany now living under Communist rule was formerly the principal source of the food supply. Eastern Germany supplied not only grain and potatoes, but also meat, eggs, vegetables and fruits. The area east of the Oder-Neisse rivers fed 16% of the total population.
Next to Denmark and Holland this area was the scene of the most intensified farming activity in Europe. Western Germany today produces only 60% of the food supply for its 50 million people with the remaining 40% dependent upon imports. Modernization of agricultural methods made possible with Marshall Plan funds from the United States has played an important part in increasing the food supply available within Germany.
In addition, with special funds supplied
WURTZBURG—The Main River and the city of Wurtzburg as seen from the Marienberg Fortress.