by the Marshall Plan, a technical service wa-s founded to collect information about the newest technical advances in the field of agriculture and to use this information in training courses and for counseling farmers.
Many cities have cleared away the major portion of debris remaining after wartime bombing activities. It is estimated however, that it will take ten years to complete the process. The rubble already cleared away would make a wall 150 feet wide and 60 feet high stretching for 500 miles. There also remains the tremendous program of creating housing facilities for workers which cannot be completed in less than ten years. Refugees streaming across the East-West Germany border into Western Germany complicate the problem still further.
Economically, Germany in 1954 prospered as never before. Industrial production hit record highs with all signs pointing to further expansion. Employment was at peak levels and the pool of jobless became so low in the late fall that plans were drafted to import foreign workers, especially from Italy, to replace the men due to be called for military service. The Deutsche Mark became a hard currency, though complete convertibility was still being held off for coordination with similar measures in other countries.
Germany is once again seeking to gain a firm place in the world market. Today more than ever, Western Germany is dependent on export, principally because of the loss of large areas of agrarian land and the burden of an unnatural population increase of nine million people. Due to a relaxation of the controls originally placed on export trade by the occupation authorities and to the Marshall Plan, which foresaw Germany’s cooperation with other Marshall Plan countries in expanding trade-relations, Germany’s export figures have boomed. Trade agreements have been signed with fifteen countries. A trade agreement has also been signed in England which includes twenty-one participating nations. East Germany, on the other hand has become increasingly dependent upon the Soviet orbit in its trade with 75% of 1953 exports going-eastward.
Germany has much that is in demand for trading with the rest of the world. The Ruhr area, for example, equal in size to Pittsburgh, Detroit and West Virginia, is the greatest industrial center of Europe. Six million people are concentrated in the region living in a string of large cities which almost touch each other. Their chief employment is in coal mining and the production of iron and steel and auxiliary industries. The coal produced in the Ruhr at an annual rate of about one billion dollars, is especially well suited as blast furnace coke. Therefore a steel industry settled close to the coal mines instead of hauling its iron ore from a distance. In an endless chain, the iron and steel works extend from Krefeld in the West to Hamm in the East, from the rivers Lippe and Ruhr in the North to the Wupper in the South. Iron and steel products, ranging from pig iron to thin wire play an exceedingly important role in German exports, amounting to over
Pa/v American
IVorto Atomrs Teacher
250 million dollars annually. German steel pipes and malleable cast iron, sheet iron and rails, scrap iron, bar mill products and section iron as well as many other steel and iron products are playing an important part in supplying American industry. A considerable proportion of the products of the German chemical industry are based on chemicals derived from coal. An American traveling through the Ruin' and other centers of German heavy industry can see at first hand the role that the many hundreds of foundries, rolling mills, forging mills, hammer works and pressing plants play in assisting American industry and the American defense effort.
German chemists have long been famous the world over for their ingenuity. They first extracted gasoline from coal; produced the first synthetic rubber; and developed the aniline dyes which took the place of sofne expensive natural dyes. The innumerable drugs developed in Germany have played important parts in the chemical and medical fields. Sulfuric acid and plastics, essential oils and staple fiber, tannin, chemicals used in photography, coal tar dyes, drugs, fertilizers and thousands of other products of the German chemical industry regularly flow to the United States in large quantities.
The wide variety of products of the German machine and machine tool industry, which are of special interest to the United States, range from the smallest calculating machine to the mightiest steam locomotive. Germany produces textile machinery, leather processing machines, agricultural machines, power engines and pumps, compressed air machines, material handling equipment, paper making and printing machines, machines for the food industry as well as all kinds of machine tools, all of them the latest in modern construction and mechanical precision. There are almost 4,000 machinery manufacturing plants in Western Germany, centered mainly in the Ruhr area, the Rhine-Main triangle, Wuerttemberg, Munich-Augsburg, Hamburg and Berlin. Every manufacturing plant needs machines and each machine manufacturer wants to be located near his primary customers. Therefore the manufacturers of mining equipment and machinery are found predominantly in the Ruhr area and the rest of industrial Rhineland-Westphalia; producers of textile machinery in the textile center around Bielefeld; and producers of machinery for the food industry predominantly in southwest Germany and Wuertem-berg. The machine tool industry, which offers a lot of novelties, is centered in the Ruhr area, in Wuerttemberg and in Berlin. The United States purchased only 5 million dollars worth of machinery before Korea.
Solingen, Germany, has.long been famous as a trade mark on such products as knives, scissors, razors, razor blades, tableware, cork screws and can openers. Today, Solingen quality and appearance is up to prewar standards in every way. In addition to Solingen, other German centers of cutlery manufacture specialize in products that meet the high standards demanded by foreign buyers. These centers are located predominantly in the Ruhr area as well as in southern Wuerttemberg. Tuttlingen for example,
Germany 5
has a high reputation for medical, dental and surgical instruments. Tools, another German specialty, are often manufactured in connection with cutlery. Such products as hammers and pliers, chisels and drills and endless varieties of combination kits are sold the world over.
German made cameras are also famous the world over for their outstanding ingenuity, precision workmanship and mechanical reliability. The names of the top German cameras are almost as well known in the United States as famous cigarette brand names. German binoculars are also noted for their superior qualities. The country’s microscopes and measuring instruments are a boon to scientists wherever they live. Telescopes are favorites of leading astronomers and German projectors help teachers to illustrate a multitude of subjects. This branch of German industry accounts for a large share of total German exports. The defense effort of the Western world gives an added importance to this industry.
Rhine wine is said to be at its best in a fine glass which is often an output of Germany. The German glass industry produces fine glass, crystal drinking goblets and stemware. In industrial and scientific glassware the nation’s reputation for precision workmanship is high. German thermometers, plate glass, sheet glass, medical, chemical and pharmaceutical hollow glassware are especially popular in the United States. German china ware (developed over 250 years ago) represented about one-fifth of all German exports to the United States. Fine German china has always been popular in this country as figurines, particularly period costumes and group scenes with built-in musical works. In the industrial and scientific field Americans have long used German porcelain products.
A German, Peter Henlein from Nuremberg, invented the pocket watch and today the country is still one of the leading watch manufacturing countries. Watch and clock buyers from all Continents meet in the Black Forest towns of Schramberg, Triberg, Vil-lingen, Schwenningen, St. Georgen, Furt-wangen and above all in world famous Pforzheim. Watches and clocks range from tiny ring watches to big grandfather clocks. Famous hand-carved cookoo clocks of the Black Forest are particularly popular in the United States. Half of all large-sized clocks produced in Germany are exported.
German leather manufacturers supply a wide selection of goods. German leather goods sell well in the United States because of their careful workmanship and constant adjustment to American taste. The leather goods industry is concentrated in the city of Offenbach and in the areas of Wuerttemberg, Franconia and Upper Bavaria.
German toys are especially famous. No other nation has given so much attention to the study of children’s play and toys. Educators,' scientists and technicians have joined in studying the world of children with the result that German toys have a unique appeal. The German toy manufacturer studies children, their habits and surroundings. Trained specialists then put his ideas and