Pah America IV
Magio Afgwfvf Teacher
Peru T1
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman, Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education
Motion Pictures
Adan of the Andes, 31 min., Sound-Color. Sponsored by the Maryknoll Fathers. Available free to educational and church groups from the Maryknoll Bookshelf, Maryknoll P. 0., New York.
Filmed in Peru against Andean backgrounds. Includes Puno, Lake Titicaca, Cuzco and the “lost” Inca city of Machu Picchu. The story tells of the life of an Aymara Indian youth and his efforts to help his people.
Highlands of the Andes (Peru), 20 min., Sound. Black & White, United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
Produced by Louis de Rochemont Associates, this film shows the difference in the kind of life led by the ordinary Peruvian Indian doing his best to eke out a bare subsistence from meager crops and few domestic animals, and the Indians who work in the commercial operations of the mines. It takes us right into the copper mines at Cerro de Pasco, virtually at the ‘top of the world’.
Lima—Capital of Peru, 10 min., Sound— Color, Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Section, Washington 6, D. C.
Shows places and events in the city of Lima, including points of historical interest.
Lima Family, 19 min., Sound—Black & White, United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
Produced by Julien Bryan, this film tells about a day in the lives of the members of an upper class family of Lima, capital of Peru. Shows similarities to a family of the same class in the United States.
People of Peru, 11 min., Sound—Black & White, Hollywood Films, Hollywood Film Enterprises, Inc., 6060 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 28, Calif.
Covers the varied peoples of Peru from the old established aristocracy in Lima to the half civilized Indians of the Andes. Gives a comprehensive idea of how advanced, and yet how primitive, the people of a single country can be, and how much their manner of living depends upon the geogranhv of their country.
Peru, 11 min., Sound—Black & White, Encyclopedia Brittanica Films, Wilmette, 111.
Animated maps help to provide a historical and geographic perspective of Peru. Ruins of pre-Inca and Inca civilizations are shown. Contemporary family life in an Indian Communal village makes up the major sequence. Modern Peruvian industries— copper mining, oil refining: cotton and sugar cane production—are briefly treated, along with urban life in the city of Lima. The seasonal return of the Indians to their native villages concludes the presentation.
Peruvian Archeology, 10 min., Sound— Color. Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Section, Washington 6, D. C.
Shows ruins and artifacts of 5 periods of Peruvian archeology: Chavin Period, Early Period, Middle Period, Later Period,
and Inca Period. Concludes with the ruins of Machu Picchu.
Peruvian Plateau, 11 min., Sound—Color. Hollywood Films, Hollywood Film Enterprises, Inc., 6060 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 28, Calif.
How primitive methods of mining and transportation have been replaced by modern methods which have helped to increase the wealth obtained from the Andean peaks and plateaus of Peru.
Plantation in Perm, 11 min., Sound—Color. Hollywood Films, Hollywood Film Enterprises, Inc., 6060 Sunset Blvd., Hollywood 28, Calif.
The cultivation of sugar by irrigation in an almost rainless desert located between the Andes and the Pacific where thousands of Peruvians live and work under a system of tenant farming.
Republic of Peru, 10 min., Sound—Color. Pan-American Union, Publications and Promotion Section, Washington 6, D. C.
Illustrates the geography, history, transportation, and major cities of Peru.
Filmstrips
The Incas, 69 frames with captions-— Color. Life Magazine and S. V. E., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Photographs of the architectural remains originally built by the Incas, and various scenes of the country of Peru.
Market Day at Cusco, 40 frames with captions—Color. Young America Films, Inc., 18 East 41st Street, New York 17, N. Y.
Art work illustrations present a story based on the daily life of an Indian girl who lives in the Andes Mountains of Peru.
Peru, 33 pictures and 35 title frames. Stillfilm, Inc., 35 South Raymond Ave., Pasadena 1, Calif.
Pictures of ancient Indian ruins, customs, llamas, railroads, mining and farming.
Peru: The Andean Highland, 38 frames, Black & White. S. V. E., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Photographs show contemporary life, industries, natural resources and historic landmarks in the eastern section.
Peru, The Western Coastal Lovo Lands, 38 frames, Black & White. S. V. E., 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Scenes are depicted of the customs, industries and life on the western low lands.
Highlands of the Andes, 50 frames captioned, Black & White, United World Films, Inc., 1445 Park Ave., New York 29, N. Y.
The filmstrip is about the highest mountain homes in the world. From Lima, the railroad to the Cerro de Pasco mines zigzags upward around the steep, rocky, treeless Andes Walls. Only a few scattered sod homes of the Indians break the desolate ■scene. In the mining regions, many Indians mine and load copper ore which is taken by freight train to the smelter in nearby Oroya. These workers live in mining company barracks-like buildings.
Most Indians live in villages in the protected valleys and are farmers and herders. They have few comforts, simple homes and crude tools. Llamas are the chief domestic animal. The farmers’ trip to market is a long foot journey over rocky trails. In the famous town of Cuzco, there is often more exchange of news than actual trade among the villagers. But even a small sale means much, for the Indians are used to a difficult life in their Andean homeland.
Recording
Music of Peru. Long playing non-break-able, micro-groove 33jp3 R No. P415. Folkways Records and Service Corporation, 117 West 46th Street, New York, N. Y.
Authentic—on the spot recordings—-of the folk music and dances of the Indian mountain tribes and the folk music of the large coastal cities.
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide “New Horizons” *
PERU
LOCATION . . . Peru, on the west coast of South America, touches the coastline of Ecuador and Chile and contains some of the highest peaks of the Andes.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . Lima is one of the most fascinating cities in the world. It is a mixture of Indian and Spanish colonial, yet it is sophisticated and gay. The magnificent Inca ruins at Cuzco and Machu Picchu are awe inspiring, giving one a sense of the mysterious past. You’ll buy antique silver in Lima, blankets and llama-lined jackets and other things at the Indian markets. You’ll have fun bargaining and enjoy the fact that prices are substantially lower than at home. That goes for the hotels and restaurants too. In fact, Peru is one South American country where you can vacation on a budget. The climate is cool but along the coast at the excellent beach resorts it is warm and delightful. Peru is sophisticated country. The food is marvelous, the Peruvians very chic, the Indians colorful.
POPULATION . . . 7,500,000; the population is about equal to that of Chicago, Philadelphia and Los Angeles combined.
SIZE . . . Roughly the shape of California, Peru is three times bigger—482,258 square miles.
CAPITAL . . . Lima, a city of 1,000,000, is larger than Baltimore.
GOVERNMENT ... A republic with a President, assisted by a cabinet, and two legislative chambers.
HOW TO GET THERE ... By de luxe through-plane service 11 hours from Miami; about 16 hours from New York; 19 hours from Chicago; about 27 hours from Los Angeles. By ship, about 12 days. From Santiago, Chile, about 5 hours by air.