Pan Amer rem
World Airways Teacher
Peru 5
Then, in 1911, the American archaeologist, Hiram Bingham, the former Senator from Connecticut, made his way up to the ridge and saw enough to excite his curiosity. The following year, he returned. Cutting through undergrowth, he gradually uncovered the great amphitheater of terraces, the palace, the temples, the storehouses, and the sacred sundial. And Machu Picchu was added to the known wonders of the world.
Education and Arts
As in most Latin American countries, the capital is not only the most important city but the center of education and intellectual life as well. Lima is no exception. The University of San Marcos in Lima, founded in 1551, 85 years before Harvard, is the center of education. Various schools “federated” with Marcos are located in different parts of the city, but the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos (Main National University of San Marcos) near the Plaza San Martin provides a focal point for student life, both local and foreign.
San Marcos University offers courses during the North American summer vacation period. These courses are open to students from everywhere, and cover Spanish literature, Peruvian history, art, folklore, etc. There are universities also in Arequipa, Cuzco, Trujillo. There is also in Lima the Catholic University of Lima.
Vocational and technical schools are being established in several major areas of the country. Emphasis is on techniques of teaching and development of skills in electricity, carpentry, sheet-metal work, agriculture and other vocational activities. There are experimental farms to teach better agriculture and livestock methods. Several Indian community colonies are reviving age-old skills such as weaving, pottery-making and metal working.
Years ago, Peruvian lovers of art, literature and poetry had but one model: Europe. Then, they discovered a practically untapped source of a traditional national culture, and almost everything centered on the indigenous Inca and pre-Inca motifs. Today, the Asociacion de Artistas Aficionados, Peru’s liveliest artistic and literary group, seeks to merge the two.
The group has done a good job. During the last few years representative artists have visited Europe and succeeded in offering abroad Peruvian accomplishments in many fields—painting, silver, ceramics and native costumes.
Peru has a cultural tradition which goes back to the colonial period and beyond. The best representative of that period is Inca Garcilaso (1539-1616). The Inca, as he liked to call himself, was the son of the conqueror Garcilaso de la Vega, cousin of the Spanish poet, his namesake. The Inca’s mother was a grand daughter of Tupac Yupanqui and a cousin of Atahualpa. At the age of twenty-one Garcilaso left Peru, never to return. In Spain he participated in many military expeditions. Later he retired to Cordova and devoted his life to literature.
The Inca Garcilaso was a master of prose in that age of masterful writing. His first work was a perfect translation of a master-
piece, the Philographia or Dialogues on Love by the Spanish Jew Leon Hebreo, who wrote it during his exile in Italy. Later on Garcilaso wrote La Florida (1605), a story of Hernando de Soto’s expedition to the flowery peninsula.
Garcilaso’s last and greatest task was the Royal Commentaries (1609-1617), one of the best of all the works on the early history of the Americas. The first part deals with the story of the Inca Empire, the second, with that of the conquerors. After long study Garcilaso collected a vast store of information, both Indian and Spanish, and one of his best sources was the living Word of the men and women of his own family. Garcilaso is the Herodotus of the Incas ; he captured and rendered the true spirit of their civilization, together with the feeling of the landscape that encircled it, with “the overwhelming imminence of the Andes”.
The Andes have been the source of inspiration of many poets. José Santos Cho-cano (1875-1934) is one among many. This Peruvian poet whose fiery, figurative, epigrammatic style won him laurels at an early age was a man of adventurous spirit. His name is legend in Peru. Alice Stone Black-well, the American admirer of Spanish American poetry, has rendered into English one of Santos Chocano’s poems, The Andes: As winds along, in snowy marble bare, The craven serpent of Laocoon,
O’er a whole continent the Andes run, Braiding their mighty knots in shining air..
A horror like to Dante’s thrills us there, Before that crowd of heroes, every one Lifting a shield of granite in the sun, And crowned with silver helmet gleaming fair.
Each hero’s heart is filled with boundless grief
Because he longs to shout ; he trembles, fights,
Is rent with pain—and yet no shout we hear.
In somber ecstasy, his sole relief Is to send downward from his farthest heights
A wandering river, like a silent tear.
Wings over Peru
In the field of aviation Peru can be proud of her great pioneer whose name is a symbol—Jorge Chavez. Jorge Chavez is the national hero who shares the honors with Brazil’s Santos Dumont and U.S.A.’s Wright Brothers.
One of the Plazas in Lima is named after Jorge Chavez who was the first to fly across the Alps. This was in 1912. He lost his life as he was attempting to land in a snowstorm at Domodossola, Italy, after his triumphant flight. There is always a group of admiring young Peruvians around the striking statue of modern and daring style of the youthful aviator which adorns the square. Almost everybody in Peru knows the last words uttered by the flyer just before the crash: “Arriba, siempre arriba” (Higher, always higher) which have become the slogan of the Peruvian Air Force.
Peru has had regular air service since 1928 when Pan American-Grace Airways inaugurated service from the Canal Zone. Civil aviation activities are administered by the Minister of Aeronautics. From Lima-tambo, Lima’s airport, about twenty minutes by automobile from the center of the city, you eaju fly practically anywhere in Peru. On the air trip your airplane may pass over part of the Andean ranges that traverse Peru, affording views of beautiful mountains, scenery and glimpses of the Pacific lapping the Peruvian coast below; you may cross the magnificent Andes to reach Iqui-tos, on the Amazon River, which not long ago was almost inaccessible. Thanks to aviation, Peru has made available to the visitor and to any one who wishes to establish himself in that country the richest and most, awe-inspiring regions in the world.
LIMATAMBO — This is an interior view of the administration building at Lima’s Airport. Note that ticket counters, the bank on the mezzanine and other features closely resemble corresponding features of airports in the U. S.