Pan American
6 Peru	World Airways Teacher
How Peru Lives — Economy and Trade
By Lou A. Phillips
Roughly the shape of California, but about three times as big, Peru has an area of about 482,000 square miles. This figure is only approximate because of the nation’s long standing boundary disputes witti bordering countries. These disputes arise from disagreement about colonial grants and early treaties, and from imperfect knowledge of the interior. Peru lies along the western or Pacific coast of South America. Ecuador and Colombia bound it on the north; Chile on the south; and Bolivia and Brazil on the east. Its population of 7,500,000 is about equal to that of Chicago, Philadelphia and Los Angeles combined.
The backbone of the Andes Mountains runs the length of Peru dividing it into three distinct regions. Thus air transportation has been an important factor in binding the nation together and stimulating its domestic and international trade.
From Paita, the most northern port on Peru’s 1,400 miles of coast, as far south as the Chilean border, the coastal plain, lying between the Andes and the Pacific, is a bare desert, which, but for irrigation, would be without vegetation. Varying in width from 25 to 100 miles it contains about one-fifth of the population of the country. In some places rain has fallen only once in several centuries. By irrigating the narrow river valleys, however, the desert has been made to produce the country’s principal export crops of cotton and sugar. Some rice is also grown in the area. Midway on the coast is Callo, the chief port and gateway to Lima. Farther south is Mollendo, port of entry to the high plateau of the Andes,
where about two-thirds of all Peruvians live.
From Mollendo a railroad climbs over the barren hills toward the plateau. This is a desert of sand and pebbles stretching toward the red and gray mountains. Beyond the mountains are three huge volcanoes, one of which is not quite extinct. To the north is snow-clad Coropuna, over 20,000 feet high. The train climbs the red and gray mountains to a second terrace where the town of Arequipa stands on both banks of the river Chile, in an amphitheater formed by the volcanoes.
The Central plateau of the Andes, north of Arequipa, lies between the two main ranges of the Andes, the eastern and western Cordilleras. The plateau is from 10,000 to 13,000 feet high, and is the only part of Peru where men can live by agricultural or pastoral pursuits. There is fertile soil in the valleys but the sides are so steep that oidy the Indians can cultivate them. They plant in terraces on the hillside just as their ingenious ancestors did. Each village is completely cut off from its neighbors. On the plateau there is coarse grass which supports sheep and cattle, and flocks of llamas and alpacas, both valuable for their wool. The finest fleece of all comes from the vicuña, a beast resembling the llama, but which has never been domesticated.
In the heart of the plateau is Lake Titicaca, 130 miles long by 41 miles wide, about half the size of Lake Ontario. It is the highest lake in the world navigable by steamers, and was believed to be sacred by the Incas. In the center of the lake are two
holy Indian islands, the Island of the Sun and the Island of the Moon. On the first is a sacred rock, shaped something like the head of a puma, which gives its Indian name to the lake. The second was probably the harem of the Incas. The north and west shore is Peruvian; the east and south shore of the lake belong to Bolivia.
On the other side of the Andes is the tropical region known as the montaña, which falls away into the plain of the Amazon. This is the third area of Peru. No natural frontier exists between Peru and its neighbor on the east, Bolivia. The montaña is covered with tropical forests, and nobody lives there except a few collectors of rubber and tribes of wild Indians. It is full of valuable minerals and timber, but the damp terrific heat makes it an impossible district for Europeans.
Peru’s livelihood comes from agriculture, stock raising, oil wells and mines. It is said the Peruvians live from the soil and their government lives from taxes on minerals. The soil produces over twice as much as all mines, oil wells and industries. Over nine-tenths of the people live directly from the soil. About one-seventh of the arable land or about four million acres are cultivated. About one-half of the crops come from irrigated land.
In the lowlands and valleys, rice, cotton and sugar cane are important crops. In the upland areas wheat, corn, barley, oats, potatoes and fruit are raised. Peru is believed by some authorities to be the original home of the potato. The products of the tropical eastern section consist chiefly of rubber, cinchona (Peru first gave quinine to the world), other medicinal herbs, dyestuffs and cacao products. Rubber and quinine, once chief exports are unimportant due to competition from the East Indies. The alpaca, llama and sheep furnish valuable textile materials. Forest wealth is scarcely tapped.
Just off the coast of Peru are some islands which have contributed strangely to the nation’s income. Visited by millions of birds, their manure, called “guano,” is a source of fertilizer. For a period of twenty years around the middle of the Nineteenth Century guano produced more money for Peru than was obtained from the mining of gold and silver by the Incas. This source of fertilizer is still important although to a lesser degree.
Most of Peru’s natural wealth comes from minerals, the most important of which are copper, silver, lead, petroleum, gold, coal and tungsten. Peru furnishes most of the world’s supply of vanadium. Mines furnish about two-thirds of all exports. Petroleum is first even though the Peruvian output is only about one-fifteenth that of Venezuela. Copper is second with the nation’s production being topped only by Mexico and Chile in Latin America. Antimony, nickel, tungsten and manganese are also produced. Industry consists of textiles, chemical products, prepared foods, glassware, paper and other consumer goods. On paper Peruvian exports are greater than its imports showing a comfortable margin of profit. However, mines, oil wells, smelters and refineries are chiefly foreign owned with outside technicians drawing major salaries and major profits flowing to foreign
LLAMAS — A friendly Indian woman with her llamas stops to chat with a visitor. TLe llama is a cousin of the camel, and is the beast of burden of Peru.