Pa tv AnERtCAy
10 Peru	World Airways Teacher
Discovering South America—Freeman— Dodd Mead
Meet the South Americans—Crow—Harper Rio Grande to Cape Horne—Beals— Houghton Mifflin
Lands and Peoples—Thompson—Grolier
South American Observations and Impressions—Bryce—Macmillan South by Thunderbird—Strode—Random The Americas—Atwood-Thomas—Ginn New Worlds to Conquer—Halliburton— Bobbs Merrill
New Roads to Riches—Tomlinson— Scribner
A Childs Geography of the World—Hillyer Appleton Century
South American Story—Eells-—Dodd Mead
World Geography-—Bradley—Ginn Circling South America—Anderson— Marshall Jones
Geography of the World—Packard-0verton —Macmillan
Salud! A South American Journal— Banning—Harper
Along the Inca Highway—Malkus—Heath Stories of Latin American States—Sanchez —Crowell
New Found World—Shippen—Viking Peruvian Pageant—A Journey in Time— Blair—Bobbs Merrill
Hasta la Vista—A Postcard from Peru— Morley—Doubleday
High Life in the Andes—Dodge—Random House
Jungle Paths and Inca Ruins—McGovern —Century
Lands of the Andes and the Desert— Carpenter Peru—Prescott
Peru—Land of Tradition—Coordinator Inter American Affairs, Washington,
D. C.
The Americas—A Panoramic View—Pan American Union—Washington, D. C. Song Source Material for Social Studies Units—Wright & Lossing—Columbia University
Catalogue of Pan American Union Publications, Washington, D. C.
VOCABULARY
More words to add to your vocabulary :
anodyne	soothing
antimony	a silver white hard metallic element
appalling	dismaying, terrifying
arable	capable of being cultivated
artisans	trained workmen, superior craftsmen
austere	severe, stern, simple
avaricious	greedy, miserly
barren	not capable of producing
berg	an iceberg
caballeros	Spanish gentlemen, cavaliers
cinchona	Peruvian bark, source of quinine
citadel	strong fortress
conquistador	conqueror
contémplate	consider thoughtfully
cosmopolitan	common to all the world
dissension	difference of opinion
enterprise	an undertaking
fantastic	fanciful
imminence	dangerously close
inaccessible	not easy to get to
indigenous	native
ingenious	inventive; clever
luminous	shining, full of light
lush	abundant
manganese	hard, brittle, metallic element used in making glass and paints ; not magnetic ; often combined with steel
myriad	large indefinite number
nucleus	the body or essential part
opulence	possessing great wealth, comfort
pastoral	rural, rustic
piquancy	having a tart taste
puma	reddish tawny animal about 4 feet in length
remote	far removed
señoritas	young ladies
sublime	grand, supreme
sumptuous	magnificent, luxurious
symmetry	harmony,. arranged with balance
tungsten	heavy metallic element with higher melting point than any other metal
unscrupulously	without principle
vanadium	silver white metallic element used in steel to increase strength
vice regal	deputy of the viceroy
viceroy	ruler
vicuñas	animal of the Andes giving fine and valuable wool
WHAT DID YOU LEARN ABOUT PERU?
I. With how many of these Spanish words are you familiar?
1.	chunchos	9. patios
2.	montana	10. arriba, siempre
3.	sierra	arriba
4.	conquistadores	11. siete
5.	padres	12. patos
6.	vale un Peru	13. cebolla
7.	señoritas	14. chupe
8.	cabelleros	15. papas
II.	For what are	these cities remembered?
1.	Lima	6. Cerro do Pasco
2.	Callao	7. Trujillo
3.	Arequipa	8. Iquitos
4.	Moliendo	9. Parcusana
5.	Cuzco	10. Morococha
III.	Do you remember?
1.	From what Indians are many Peruvians descended?
2.	What mountains run through Peru?
3.	What are the two chief occupations of Peru?
4.	Why are the llama and alpaca so useful in this country?
5.	The population of Peru is made up of what three kinds of people?
6.	Into how many natural divisions is Peru divided?
7.	What is obtained from the cinchona bark ?
8.	What is the name of the oldest university in the Americas?
9.	How long does it take to reach Peru by plane from New York City?
10.	During which months is it summertime in Peru? Springtime?
11.	Which is the second largest city in Peru?
12.	Which is the city of Kings?
13.	Name two of Peru’s national heroes.
14.	What are some of Peru’s contributions to world culture?
15.	What are some of the geographical influences which affect the lives and habits of the people of Peru?
16.	What language is spoken in Cuzco?
17.	Where was the potato first found?
18.	At what port do they do direct unloading from ship to wharf?
19.	What is the name of the naval base in Peru?
20.	Name two seaports of Peru.
21.	Where is the highest mining camp located ?
IV.	Complete these sentences:
1.	Peru supplies most of the world’s.....
2.	The leading commercial crop of Peru
is..................
3.	Two animals used extensively in Peru
are the.............and..............
4.	The name of the lake situated so high
above sea level is..............
5.	The eastern slope of the Andes is called
the......................region.
6.	The grazing region is called the......
7.	Peru’s constitution provides that the
government be headed by a............
8...................is the capital of Peru.
9.	The city of Cerro do Pasco is noted for..........................
10.	The name of the conqueror of Peru
is..........................
11.	The monetary unit of Peru is the .....
12.	The city of .................is the old
Inca capital.
13.	Machu Picchu was discovered by........
......................a U.S. Senator
from.....................
14	.............. was the Inca emperor.
15	................................was
a national hero, famous scientist and skilled physician.
V.	Questions for discussion
1.	Why is it difficult to conduct a democratic form of government with masses of illiterate people in a country?
2.	What is meant by the statement that Peru needs a more balanced form of economy ?
3.	Discuss the transportation and communication problems in Peru.
4.	What is your opinion of the statement, “Next to our own, South America is the continent we should know best but of which we seem to know the least.”
5.	How is the economic growth of Peru affected by lack of adequate transportation, lack of labor, and crude methods of agriculture?