Pan American
World Airways Tracker	Peru 9
water and sewage systems, nursing schools.
5.	Music : — National Symphony Orchestra plays in outdoor auditorium, Campo de Marte; use of the guitar; songs of Peru from Song Source Material; (see bibliography) use of Indian tunes by modern composers.
6.	Art:—weaving by hand on simple looms of belts, 'shawls, blankets, mgs; weaving taught in schools; National Inca Ruins at Cuzco, Pachacamaf and Machu Picchu; Museum of Archeology, Colonial Museum, Museum of Italian Art, Museum Pinacoteca Municipal Merino for Peruvian artists; antique silver; painting; ceramics; pre Inca motifs used by Association de Artistas Aficionados; embroidery; original classwork after seeing, hearing and reading about the beauty spots of Peru.
Jose Sabogal and Camilo Bias, artists, use Indian motifs.
7 Mathematics :—graphs showing production and distribution of leading products ; time line of history of Peru from conquest to date; comparison of hours and cost of travel by plane and ship; sol, monetary unit (7<f) ; graphs showing-heights of lakes, mines, railroad centers in comparison to those of other countries.
B. Skills:
There are a good many interesting stories to be read for information on Peru. Concentrate on picking out the main facts, placing them in an outline and telling them in the student’s own words. Discussion of some of the problems and handicaps Peruvians meet should encourage critical thinking.
VII. SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
A. Things to Do:
1.	A series of book reviews written by the students on books about Peru.
2.	An exhibit of pictures contrasting Inca civilization and culture with that of modern Peru.
3.	A series of graphs and maps prepared by students showing Peru’s trade relations with the rest of the world.
4.	Illustrations and stories about facts peculiar to Peru such as:
a.	strange fiber craft sailed on Lake Titicaca.
b.	Indian markets 10,000-15,000 feet above sea level.
c.	Jorge Chavez, aviator, first to fly across the Alps.
d.	potato first found in Andean highlands.
e.	llamas, vicunas, alpacas.
f.	Cerro do Pasco—highest mining camp and highest railroad station in the world, (trains carry oxygen tanks)
g.	Manuel Prado, president during World War II, first South American president to visit the U.S. while in
office.
h.	first barrel of oil shipped from South America came from Peru.
i.	Panama hats worn by Peruvian women.
j.	University of San Marcos oldest in America.
5.	An assembly program dramatizing the conquest of Peru by Pizarro and the fight for freedom led by San Martin and Bolivar.
6.	Home made slides and movies made by the class after the study is completed.
7.	A visit from someone who has been to Peru.
8.	A visit from personnel of an airline telling about a flight to Peru.
9.	An exhibit of Peruvian articles.
B. Items above may be used as culminating activities and may be shared with other classes in the school.
VIII. MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
1.	books and magazines
2.	movies and strip films
3.	personnel
4.	travel folders
5.	maps and globes
6.	realia from Peru
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Indian Art of the Americas—Appleton—-Scribner
Stories From the Americas—Henius— Scribner
Wings Around South America—Dalgliesh —Scribner
The Other Americas—Tomlinson— Scribner
Peru (Picture Geography)—Bailey— American News Co.
They Live in South America-—Dalgliesh & Milhous—Scribner
South American Primer—Rodell—American News
Lucky Llama—Desmond
Citadel of a Hundred Stairways—Malleus—-Heath
Roundabout South America—Peck— Harper
Chancho, a Boy and His Pig in Peru-Stark
Picture Map Geography of South America —Quinn—Lippincott
Other Young Americas—Gotz—Morrow
Today’s Geography of the World—Merrill
Liberators and Heroes of South America— Lansing—Page
The Nations At Work—Packard, Sinnott, Overton—Macmillan
Essentials of Geography—Brigham & McFarlane—American Book
Elementary Geography—Niver—Hinds, Hayden & Eldredge
Adventures of Pancho of Peru—Nevins— Dodd Mead
Children of the Sun—Greenbie—Row Peterson
Riches of South America—Von Hagen— D. C. Heath
Travel in Latin America—Hancock— Merrill
Let’s Read About South America—Goetz—-Fideler
Good Neighbors—Herring—^University Press
South American Roundabout—Rothery— Dodd Mead
INCA MASONRY — The Incas built stone walls and monuments like the one in the picture by carefully fitting the stones together so that they would stand through the years. They did not use any mortar.