Pan American
Won id A/ffmrs Teacher	Peru 7
holders of stocks and bonds. This is also true of much of the sugar and stock raising industries. Cotton is the one sizable national enterprise chiefly owned by Peruvian citizens. American capital leads with British interests following in importance.
There is one industry in Peru however to which both the Incas and the Spaniards unknowingly contributed and which provides considerable income to both small towns and larger cities. It is the tourist industry which is constantly growing. Peru is a unique tourist haven. It is a mixture of Indian and Spanish Colonial tradition. Lima is both sophisticated and gay. Many Inca ruins are both awe inspiring and mysterious. It is a land which appeals to both the fun loving and the serious traveler.
The Incas built a mighty kingdom centuries before the discovery of America and were far supèrior to the tribes around them. They had considerable scientific and engineering knowledge. They had built fine roads and suspension bridges, and by means of their wonderful irrigation systems were able to cultivate the steep mountain sides. Corn, potatoes, tomatoes, coca, and cacao were among their crops. The Incas had also cultivated some of the arts, and excelled as masons, weavers, dyers, potters and in the working of metals. Their system of government approached perfection. Everything was organized. Agriculture was planned and controlled. One-third of the crop belonged to the State ; one-third to the grower ; and one third was reserved for possible disasters.
Cuzco, the capital of the Inca Empire, lies in a basin-shaped hollow, 11,380 feet above the sea. Around it is a green and fertile vale with a few trees. The people of Cuzco are Indian, and the Quechua language is most frequently heard in the streets. The buildings of Cuzco are all Spanish. Stone houses line the streets, which are paved with rough cobbles. On the great
plaza, which stands on the same site as the market place in the Inca city, are three churches and the university founded in 1598. The Incas are said to have possessed a golden chain long enough to stretch completely around the plaza. They threw it into the Lake; of Ur cos so that it could not fall into the hands of the Spaniards, and many attempts have been made to recover it.
Nothing remains of the ancient city but walls, which are made of huge stones, fitted together without mortar and sloping slightly backwards. The Temple of the Sun has a rounded wall, in which the stones are so perfectly worked that the curve presents a smooth surface. Above the city is the fortress 'of Sacsahuaman, defended on the side away from the town by three parallel lines of walls. These are built of even larger stones than the walls of Cuzco, and seem to be the work of some people who had disappeared long before the coming of the Spanish.
Lima, the capital, which stands a little inland, 500 feet above the sea, was built by Pizarro in 1535. Once the capital of all the Spanish colonies in South America, it was known as the City of the Kings. Its viceroy was the greatest man in the Western Hemisphere, and it was the last city on the continent to hold out for Spain. It still has great families who pride themselves on their descent from Spanish nobles. The city is always in danger of earthquakes, and so its houses are seldom built higher than one or two stories. Many of them are made of cane and reeds plastered with mud. The only stately part of the town is the central square, the Plaza de Armas. The Plaza is the heart and soul of the city. From its fountain the principal streets lead, in accordance with Spanish custom. The Colonial-style archbishop’s palace, the city hall and the vsnowy marble government palace front on three sides of the square, while on the fourth is the large and handsome
cathedral. There are as many as seventy-two churches in Lima and a number of old Spanish mansions. East of the city are the lofty peaks of the Andes, but they can hardly ever be seen, for a damp fog hangs constantly over Lima. The climate is never warm, but never very cold.
Many of the attractions that make Peru so fascinating to the traveler will be found in the region lying north of the capital. The region possesses striking scenery. From Lima to the Ecuadorian border, the country is dominated by the formidable Andes in whose western parts are picturesque villages and scenes of memorable historic events. There is Huaura, where General San Martin declared the freedom of the country from Spain. And Callejon de Huaylas, sometimes referred to as Peru’s Paradise or the Switzerland of South America. The green narrow valley (callejon means lane) set about 10,000 feet high crowds in between two magnificent ranges of the Lofty Andes—the Cordillera Blanca (White Range) and the desolate, craggy Cordillera Negra (Black Range). All along the valley’s length flows the Santa River and nearby is twin-peaked Mount Huas-caran second in height only to Aconacagua in South America. Fragrant wild flowers abound and the inhabitants live the quiet life of their forefathers. About eighty miles in length the valley contains a number of picturesque villages and towns with narrow cobblestone streets and odd-angled house roofs.
Also in the north is Trujillo, focus of a rich agricultural and mining region. Many of the nation’s most extensive sugar haciendas and historic ruins are located nearby. Founded by Pizarro in the 1530’s (and named in honor of his birthplace in Spain), Trujillo attracted settlers to its rich surrounding valley early; today it is a leading Peruvian city. Soil and mines built its handsome colonial mansions ; surviving examples rank among South America’s most lovely.
A scene of historic importance in the conquest of the New World lies northeast of Trujillo—Cajamarca, where the giant Inca Empire toppled. The 9,000 foot high city rests in a fertile valley behind the coastal range. Its picturesque homes, shaded pastel and white, and peaceful countryside gave little hint of the violent drama enacted there on a day in November 1532. Atahu-alpa, the Inca or monarch, and several thousand of his unarmed followers gathered in Cajamarca at Pizarro’s invitation, only to fall before a daringly executed ambush. Cajamarca which was reconstructed during colonial times preserves in its central plaza what is thought to be a ransom chamber, once filled high with priceless treasures and glittering objects of gold. Also of interest are the ruins of Cajamarca’s palace and fortress, and the Inca throne.
Peru is a land of contrasts. The new and the old stand side'by side. There are deserts and alpine-like retreats. Broad avenues and narrow cobblestone streets. Ancient Indian ways of life and San Marcos University, the oldest in the New World. Whether interests lie in the past or the present, in the city or in the village Peru will satisfy.
SILVER — As in Mexico, and other Latin American countries, there are highly skilled silversmiths in Peru. Prices are relatively low, and silver souvenirs are favorites for tourists visiting Peru.