2 Peru
Pan American
Mogio A/ehays Teacher
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO PERU
Lima, city of a million people and capital of Peru, is 2,633 miles from Miami, Fla. as the crow flies and the same distance via Panagra flights over the Pan American route to Panama. While the aforesaid crow would doubtlessly take several days for the trip, Panagra will get you there in slightly more than 12 hours, using “El Pacifico” tourist service, which leaves the American gateway at 4:45 p.m. three times a week. An even faster flight is first class “El Inter-Americano”, which makes the distance daily in little more than 10 hours.
A trip to Lima, glamorous though it may sound, is well within the realm of possibility for anyone with a few days on his hands and about $700 to $800 in his pocket. At tourist fares, you need only $319 for a one way ticket and $574.20 for a round trip passage, which leaves you with a sizeable chunk of U.S. currency to exchange into Peruvian soles at a very favorable exchange (currently about 20 soles to the dollar).
Reservations can be made across the counter of any Pan American World Airways office, where a ticket agent will gladly offer advice and help on the many details of your trip. He will tell you, for instance, that Peru requires a tourist visa for visits in that country up to 90 days. To obtain this visa, the American tourist need only present his passport to the nearest Peruvian consulate for documentation.
If Panagra’s first class travel is your preference, there will be a plush red carpet waiting for you at Miami International Airport, where a four motored DC-6 stands ready to make the southbound flight. While “El InterAmericano” gasses up for an eight o’clock evening departure, passengers are welcome to relax in the stylish and commodious Clipper Lounge, where cooling refreshments may be had. Their baggage, in the meantime, has been ticketed at the weighing-in counter and is being loaded into the cargo hold of the plane, to be claimed upon arrival at Lima..
Your adventure begins when you present your gate pass and are greeted by one of Panagra’s comely hostesses, who will give you a seat in the plane’s 44-passenger compartment. The pilot guns his engines and in a matter of seconds you find yourself airborne and' cruising along at 300 miles an hour, or even faster with the right kind of tailwind.
Miami and Miami Beach fade away in the sunset as the plane steers a course due south past the Florida Keys, a myriad of small tropical islands reaching into the Florida Straits. In about 30 minutes the mountains of Cuba will appear through the clouds, announced by a scattering of twinkling lights below.
Shortly out of Miami, just as you have settled in your comfortable seat, there will be a tap on your shoulder and it will be Panagra’s smiling hostess or purser with a ready-to-serve dinner. Have a pre-dinner cocktail, if you like, and then enjoy the tempting fare from the airline’s “Gourmet Galley”, which is truly inter-American in flavor. The menu is likely to include such
delicacies as the juice of papaya from the tropics, jumbo shrimp from a river in Peru, tender fillet of beef from the Argentine, Bolivian avocados, rich black coffee from Colombia and your choice of red or white Chilean vintage wine.
You soon discover that the hostess and purser aboard this flight are both bilingual, as they would have to be to converse with Spanish speaking as well as English speaking passengers. All of Panagra’s flight attendants are, in fact, natives of one of the seven Latin American countries served by the airline. They make the announcements, first in English and then in Spanish, that you hear from time to time over the plane’s public address system.
Somewhere enroute to Panama the plane’s captain is almost sure to turn the controls over to his co-pilot and visit with the passengers for a while. You’ll know him by the winged insignia on his breast pocket and the four gold bars on the sleeves of his Navy blue uniform. It is informal visits of this sort and other personal touches that have gained Panagra the name of the “world’s friendliest airline”.
Shortly after midnight, the green and amber leviathan of the sky will drop down for a landing at Tocumen Airport just outside of Panama City, which is known as the “Crossroads of the Western Hemisphere”. This airport is one of the most modern airports in the Americas, with a 7,000 foot runway which can accommodate the heaviest planes in service and a new $2,000,000 terminal building containing up-to-date facilities for 11 international carriers and one domestic airline.
At some undefined moment just before the plane drones into Guayaquil, Ecuador, you will experience the thrill of crossing the Equator. There’s no use peering through the window when this happens, however, for no one has ever seen this mythical line, as important in geography as it is. You are now a Condor in the Imperial Realm of Jupiter Rex just the same, and a certificate attesting this fact will be mailed to you by the airlitle.
Further on, the big DC-6 will be thundering over the estuary of the Guayas River and heading south as the first rays of sun chase away the night shadows from the flat, arid Peruvian landscape. Frothy fingers of the Pacific playfully caress the coast, and here and there a green-fringed river knifes across the littoral desert. The black cordillera of the Andes can be seen looming up many miles to the east, with the snowy peaks of the white cordillera visible beyond that.
The plane veers inland. The barren desert turns to green, and farmlands come into view. “El InterAmericano” proceeds to skim the tops of low altitude clouds, your first indication that Destination Lima is near at hand.
Once your Panagra “El InterAmericano” rolls to a stop on a runway of Limatambo’s modern airport, the majestic city of Lima, with all its romantic sights and exciting activities, is completely at your disposal,