Pajv Amerícan
World Airways Teacher
1584. It is an excellent example of the Spanish Rococo (highly ornamental) architectural style.
4 Peru
yet breathing and throbbing with old-world enchantment. In a short time you begin to feel as if time had been telescoped backward to the days of the all conquering Conquistador, to an age of full-skirted señoritas and quick-tempered caballeros. . . .
You must remember this to appreciate the beauty of the city and the spirit of its people, for the most typically Spanish city of South America is becoming also the most modern and lovely. Rough cobblestones have given way to fine paving, and streets and avenues are works of art. Austere mansions of the past are competing with modernistic homes. Apartment houses and commercial office buildings side by side seem to blend in the most gracious manner.
After seeing the whole city you cannot say exactly what it is that makes Lima so different. You remember the one-story houses with large patios inside; the heavy street-doors like those of a fortress; the Moorish balconies overhanging the streets.
Jirón Union is Lima’s Fifth Avenue. It is here where you must use your wits for identifying the streets. It is some kind of double talk, charming and maddening at the same time. It is in the central part of the city. A succession of street blocks is called Jirón. The name of each Jirón is plainly marked at the corner where it intersects another thoroughfare. But—here is the rub—each individual block comprised in it has a name which is used by Limeños, to the exclusion of the name of Jirón of which it is a part. The problem is that the name of each block is not shown on street signs.
The names given to the streets often suggest their history. For example, the block called Espaderos recalls the fact that three centuries ago the swordmakers of Spanish days fashioned and sold their swords there. The street of Siete Pecados (seven sins) was famous as the abode of seven beauties. The street of Mata Siete (kill seven) owes its name to a hair-raising yarn of murder. There is the street of Barbones (bearded men), the street of Patos (ducks), and so on.
Lima is famous also for its magnificent plazas. Plaza San Martin is one of them. In the middle of the square is the equestrian statue of the Argentine General Jose de San Martin, loved by all Peruvians as one of the country’s two Liberators (the other being the Venezuelan Simón Bolívar). The best known, of course, is the Plaza de Armas. This Plaza, since the founding of Lima, has been the main square, the site which Pizarro himself selected as a nucleus for the city. Grouped about the square are the buildings in which Peruvian history has been made and continues to be made today. Here you will find the Government Palace, whose original foundation stone was laid by Pizarro in 1535. The Palace has splendid carved ceilings, exquisite chandeliers, and Moorish tiles preserve the ancient atmosphere and make it a showplace of the city. Tradition survives in the regular changing of colorfully-uniformed guards, performed with the pomp and ceremony befitting the history behind the art.
On another side of the Plaza de Armas rises the Cathedral in which the remains of Pizarro lie in a glass coffin. Behind the
Government Palace runs the Rimac River and a walk across the historic stone bridge leads to “Below the Bridge”, an important residential section from the time of the conquest until the beginning of the 19th century. Best known of the colonial mansions here is the Quinta de Presa, a sumptuous residence built by the viceroy Amat for his favorite actress, “La Perricholi”. That lady became very popular in the United States when Thornton Wilder wrote his Bridge of San Luis Rey some years ago.
Other interesting cities
Arequipa in Quechua means “here we rest” just as Alabama does in another Indian language. Although the town was refounded by Pizzaro in 1540, it had been known for centuries as a rest station for runners rushing fresh fish to tables of the Incas in their highland capital. Arequipa, the second largest city of Peru, lies in a fertile valley some 7,500 feet above sea level. It is 107 rail miles from the seaport of Mollendo on the Southern Railway of Peru which ends at Cuzco. The place is blessed with an invigorating climate of eternal early spring. Sitting on the roof garden of the famous Quinta Bates—Arequipa’s unique inn—you can see the glory of El Misti’s symmetry rising between two more volcanoes nineteen thousand feet above sea level against a luminous blue sky. The smooth, soaring lines of its cone carry your eyes up it in an instant and make it look deceptively accessible; you imagine that you could easily reach the top in two or three hours.
In Arequipa the sun shines most days. The gardens of the city are always full of flowers. The old colonial churches and mansions look as if they were built of sugar-
candy; actually, it is pink and white volcanic rock. Arequipa has been visited by distinguished world personalities—the Duke of Windsor, General Pershing, Noel Coward, and all have found perfect enjoyment at the Quinta Bates. Coward wrote in Mrs. Bates’ guest book two couplets which seem to sum up the idea of the place :
The spirit of the place conserves An anodyne for jangled nerves . . .
Of every place I’ve been to yet This I shall leave with most regret.
From Arequipa to Cuzco the trip is relatively short. Cuzco is right on the trans-Andean tourist trail. The city, the ancient capital of the Incas is about 10,400 feet above sea level. Here there are Spanish cathedrals on Inca foundations. Carved stones that are definitely Inca are built into Spanish structures. The altar of the cathedral on the Plaza de Armas is of silver, and there is there a dragon carved from a single emerald.
Cuzco is the starting point for Machu Picchu. A rail-bus takes you nearly all the way there—an 80-mile trip. You drive from the little terminal station to the bridge which crosses the rapids. Then you go up the winding trail to the ruins. From the narrow saddleback on which the ruined city stands, the precipices plunge headlong into the raging brown river, fifteen hundred feet below. Looking up makes you even giddier than looking down, for all around the valley-are black snow-streaked mountains looming over you through the driving clouds, and right ahead, at the end of the ridge, towers an appalling berg of rock. This is called Huayna Picchu. The Incas built a watchtower on top of it, to guard the approach to the citadel. Nobody knows how old this city is. It was unknown for centuries.