BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
URUGUAY
Page 1T
I.	DISCUSSION QUESTIONS:
1.	Why is Uruguay called the social laboratory of the Americas?
2.	What did Varela believe was the basis of a true democracy?
3.	Why is Uruguay called a fun country and a serious nation?
4.	Why is it called the purple land?
5.	How does Montevideo dominate Uruguay?
6.	Why is it said the Uruguay’s standard of living is among the best?
II.	WHAT DID EACH OF THE FOLLOWING HAVE TO DO WITH THE HISTORY OF URUGUAY?
Juan Diaz de Solis
Charrúa Indians Ferdinand Magellan Jose Gervasio Artigas Juan Antonio Lavelleja Jose Batlle y Ordonez Jorge Gilbert Jose Pedro Varela
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16. 17.
Jose Batlle
Graf Spee Tose Enrique Rodo Dr. Jose A. Mora
Sebastian Cabot Manuel Oribe Gabriel Terra Venancio Flores Jose Fructueso Rivera
III.	FILL IN THE BLANKS:
1.	The smallest republic in South Ameri-
ica is......................
2.	The water coastline of Uruguay is ...............miles long.
3.	The..........Indians are known in
Uruguay.
4.	The first permanent Spanish settlement was at...........................
5.	Uruguay was alternately in the hands
of the............ and.............
6.	Another name for Montevideo is
7.	The legislature of Uruguay has. houses.
8.	There is a Federal Council of... members.
9.	The principle industry is.....
10.	The seasons in Uruguay are. to ours.
IV.	CAN YOU ANSWER THESE?
1.	What is the capital of Uruguay?
2.	On what river is the capital situated?
3.	What is mate?
4.	What is the principal industry?
5.	Who is the Secretary General of the Organization of American States?
6.	What was the uprising of 33?
7.	Why is Uruguay practically an island?
8.	Name 2 important rivers.
9.	Name 3 important cities.
10.	Why is an avenue named “18 de Julio”?
11.	What percentage of the population lives in Montevideo?
12.	What is the elected term of office of the 9 members of the Federal Council?
13.	How is the Presidency determined?
14.	Who was the first white man to sail the River Plate?
15.	What General led the revolt for independence?
V.	MATCH:
1.	Capital and chief
seaport
2.	Queen of the North
3.	2nd city of Uruguay
4.	Livestock center
5.	Port
6.	Grain
Paysandu
San Jose Mercedes Fray Bentos Montevideo Salto
Making new words, familiar words, will
help.	
accessible	approachable, easy to get to
adages	well known sayings, proverbs
adherence	attachment
agates	like quartz, colors usually in bands
ancillary	auxiliary, subordinate
apostle	one who believes in a cause
autonomous	self governing
barren	unprofitable, non-producing
bicameral	two chambers or houses
breakwaters	walls for protecting harbor
chalets	like Swiss cottages
citrus	lemon like fruits
combustibles	substances that will burn easily
contiguous	touching or joining
derivatives	materials made from other bases
enfranchise	give right to vote
equestrian	skilled in horsemanship
hinterland	land behind seacoast or river shore
impetus	force, vigor
indigent	poor, lacking property
instability	lack of firmness, changeable
intrigue	complicate, entangle
judicial	pertaining to justice, the court
liability	responsible for loss or expense
lubricants	substances that lessen friction
materialism	reference to reality, too much emphasis on material interests
ostentation	public display, boasting, flourish
palatial	magnificent
pastoral	rural, rustic
penetration	entering into
plebicite	vote by the people on a big issue
personification	ideas and qualities of a human
prerrogative	an unquestionable right, official right
provisional	temporary
pursuits	employments, vocations
quaint	odd or old fashioned
roweled	spiked, spurred
stability	steadiness
substantial	solid, strong, considerable, valuable
suffrage	right or privilege of voting
symbolic	a sign, relation to
talc	soft magnesium used in making lubricants
topography	physical features of a region
turmoil	confused motion, disturb-
	ance
unique	only one, uncommon
vermicelli	wheat paste compared to spaghetti
vested	robed, completed
Bibliography, Uruguay
(NOTE: In the study of this country, you will find that there are very few books written specifically on Uruguay. Much of the needed material can be gathered from books on Latin and South America. Only a few of these will be listed in the Bibliography. Additional material can be gathered from pamphlets and current news and magazine articles.)
Stull and Hatch — Our World Today — Allyn and Bacon
Clark — All the Best in South America — Dodd Mead
Faris — Seeing South America — Revell Carpenter — Our South American Neighbors
—	American Book
Dalgliesh — They Live in South America — Scribners
Gill & Hoke — Story of the Other America — Houghton Mifflin
Cutright — Twenty Friendly Nations — Macmillan
Rothery — South American Roundabout — Dodd Mead
Goetz — Neighbors to the South — Harcourt Brace
Child — Uruguay — Harper
Donaldson — Uruguay (Pictured Geography)
—	American News
Wright and Lossing — Song Source Material
—	Columbia University
de Sherbinin — The River Plate Republics — Coward-McCann
Wiborg —A Commercial Traveler in South America — McClure Uruguay — Visit Uruguay Flags and Coat of Arms of the American Republics — Pan American Union Introduction to 20 Latin American Nations, Members of the OAS
Latin American Studies — Creole Petroleum Corporation
Magazine Articles
Time — September 9, 1957; November 5, 1956; December 12, 1955; March 14, 1955 Travel — November 1956 Business World — June 30, 1956 Americas — April 1955; May 1955 Holiday — November 1956
For further information:
Uruguay Consulate General — 17 Battery Place — New York City Uruguay Delegation to the United Nations
—	220 E. 42 Street — New York City