Page T-2
PAIV A.ME RECA.IV
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER

F»ÄtV
, S 7 v ^ * AIRWAYS t^ACHgR
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director Copyright, 1958, Pan American World Airways,Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Teachers in the United States and Canada may request listing by writing to address below. Teachers in U.S. territories and possessions and all foreign countries should apply to the nearest office of Pan American World Airways.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
JET CLIPPERS
(Continued from page T-l)
tures which distinguish it from any other aircraft ever operated in commercial service.
From nose to tail the 707 measures 144 feet, 6 inches, almost half the length of a full-sized football field. The span of its wing, angled at 35 degrees to knife smoothly through the air, is 130 feet, 10 inches. Its tail is four stories high.
The 707 is powered by four Pratt & Whitney J-57 turbojet engines whose 13,000 pounds of thrust each may be compared with the total power rating of the four large piston engines on the DC-7C.
Pan American has purchased the first six production models of the Boeing jet airliner, specifically designated 707-121 ’s. The airline also has on order 17 of the longer-range models, 707-321’s, powered with Pratt & Whitney J-75’s rated at 15,000 pounds plus. The former engines have amassed more than 4,000,000 hours of flight time in military service on high-speed aircraft of all types. The newer J-75 engine powers recently-produced Air Force and Navy aircraft.
Jet Clippers in trans-Atlantic service are flown in dual-class configuration, carrying 111 passengers, 40 in de luxe class (President Special) and 71 in economy class with Clipper Thrift Fare. On an all-luxury class flight with four-abreast seating, the passenger capacity would be 86. In Economy service the passengers will number 165. The 707’s have more than adequate space, galleys, restrooms and other facilities to carry a full Economy-class load in comfort at four-fifths the speed of sound.
The amount of kerosene fueling each of the first 707’s varies with other load factors and the routes flown. The 707’s have a maximum fuel capacity of 17,398 gallons, giving the new jets a range of 4,400 miles. Their payload is 40,000 pounds.
High speed is not the only outstanding feature provided for Pan American’s passengers by the Jet Clippers. They will be flown far above almost all over-ocean weather, cruising at altitudes of 30,000 to 40,000 feet.
The higher altitudes are usually maintained on the eastbound trans-Atlantic flights as the veteran pilots take advantage of the favorable tailwinds provided by the jetstream as it courses from North America toward Europe. This phenomenon sometimes increases by as much as 150 miles per hour the airliners’ ground speeds. Lower altitudes are flown on westbound trips.
The Jet Clipper is equipped for both sound suppression and thrust reversal, with the two functions accomplished by a combination unit attached to each of the airliner’s four engines. The suppressor dissipates a large percentage of the exhaust sound and extensive studies made by acoustical engineers and demonstrated before aeronautical experts from many parts of the world have shown that the 707 is as quiet as its piston-engined predecessors. During landing runs the big jets are slowed down by having their exhaust gases deflected forward by the internal reverser.
Although it is of considerable size, the cockpit of the 707 seems surprisingly small because it has not been necessary to expand greatly the flight crew’s “office” in a manner comparable to the growth of airliners themselves. The reciprocating engine instruments are gone, of course, replaced with new sets of dials, meters and gauges for operating the turbine powerplants. Aside from that, howe' er, and the addition of a Mach meter which indicates the airliner’s speed relative to the speed of sound, the 707 cockpit provides a familiar environment for Pan American's pilots and flight engineers.
As a result of years of research started at the end of World War II passengers will have the advantage of smooth, relaxing flight almost eight miles above the earth while traveling at 575 miles per hour.
Engineers and designers have built into the Jet Clippers new passenger conveniences but two of the major advantages of this new age of travel are inherent in jet flight — smoothness and lack of vibration.
The Jet Clippers will operate at altitudes of up to 40,000 feet where there seldom are thunderheads and other clouds which in the past have taken some of the velvet out of
MASS TRAVEL BY AIR
The Jet Clipper America, first of Pan Am’s jet fleet, was christened in Washington with Mrs. Eisenhower as sponsor. In his remarks at this ceremony, President Juan T. Trippe of Pan American said:
“Mass travel by air — made possible in the Jet Age —may prove to be more significant to world destiny than the atom bomb. For there can be no atom bomb potentially more powerful than the air tourist, charged with curiosity, enthusiasm and good will, who can roam the four corners of the world, meeting in friendship and understanding the people of other nations and races.”
velocity. Occasional clouds do rise to these altitudes in “pillars,” but these “pillars” are easily detected by radar and avoided, eliminating completely the “bumps” sometimes encountered in piston-engine flight.
Introduction of jet aircraft will also mean the elimination of the vibration caused by the propellers on even the most advanced piston-engined airliners and which has left passengers fatigued at the end of a long flight.
During demonstration flights of the Jet Clippers it has become common practice to balance a coin on edge on the arm of a seat to show the lack of vibration in the passenger cabin.
The combination of jet engines and advanced soundproofing methods have also produced a quiet airliner. When the Jet Clippers reach cruising altitude, the forward passenger compartment is almost silent and the noise level in the rear of the aircraft is no higher than current piston-engined airplanes.
Given a quiet, vibrationless aircraft, Pan American engineers and designers went to work to turn it into a hundred-windowed, jet-propelled living room, equipped and decorated for passenger comfort and convenience.
This huge living room is decorated in a pleasing, eye-resting color scheme of blue and gray pastels and equipped with chairs designed for complete relaxation whether in the upright position or reclining, with more than adequate elbow room.
As in the past Pan American’s Clippers will be kept spotless and the jets have an added means of accomplishing this. The colored panels lining the walls of the passenger cabin can be easily removed, cleaned and replaced in a short time.
One of the most striking innovations of the Boeing 707 Jet Clipper is the installation of passenger service pods situated above each row of seats. Spotlights in the pods supply the correct amount of reading light for each passenger. Individual signs show seat belt instructions and amplifiers in each unit take the “public” out of the conventional public address systems. The individual amplifiers will quietly broadcast music played intermittently from specially made tape recordings, as well as captains’ reports on flight progress, altitude changes and local weather conditions on arrival.
Air conditioning and pressurization have achieved a new simplicity and efficiency with the Jet Clippers. Before departure time, automatic controls are set and without any further adjustment optimum temperature, humidity and air pressure, simulating low altitudes, are maintained.
The years of planning have produced an aircraft with which Pan American will bring the United States into the Jet Age, an age which will not only see the world shrunk by 40 per cent, but as a result of this comfortable, high-speed travel, may see great advances in universal cooperation and understanding.