BY HYING CUPPER TO
URUGUAY
URUGUAY-THE PURPLE LAND
by Enrique Portes
In the spring the Uruguayan prairies are brilliant with wild flowers which, together with the mists in the distance, have caused Uruguay to be known as the Purple Land.
Uruguay is the smallest of all the South American countries — perhaps about the size of Oklahoma, and if you travel through the Uruguayan countryside you may think you are going through Indiana or perhaps through Southern California. These are the familiar scenes you are bound to find in Uruguay. Every acre of the land is accessible. The population is estimated at some 3,000,000, but so great is the concentration of population in Montevideo that at times the countryside seems to be almost empty.
Uruguay is nearly surrounded by water; the land boundary is confined to short stretches in the north totaling about 150 to 175 miles in length out of a complete boundary of 1,147 miles. Thus Uruguay is practically an island and does not worry about arguing with its neighbors over how far its territory extends.
All roads lead to Montevideo and of course all roads also lead from Montevideo. The best one is that from the capital to Colonia, the small river port directly across from Buenos Aires. It is about 110 miles and forms part of the Pan American Highway and therefore it has become an important artery of international travel. Near Montevideo the land is cultivated, but you do not have to go far away before the landscape reflects the typical rural economy of pasturing livestock.
The countryside is rolling, gentle land, in the south an extension of the Argentine pampa, in the north slightly more hilly. There are also here small groves of eucalyptus, willow, and paradise trees. The central and south regions are more barren. Just as Uruguay’s southern section is the most developed, the western part, along the Uruguay River, is the most important side. It is here that Paysandu and Salto, the country’s next two cities after Montevideo, are found. Salto and Paysandú have developed their river front. No shacks and slums are found here, no railroad yards or warehouse areas, but beautifully designed park zones and amphitheaters which make of the river a civic asset.
Uruguay is unspectacular as landscapes and countrysides go, but is always interesting and always charming.
Juan Díaz de Solis, a Spanish conquistador, looking for a southwest passage between the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans, was the first white man to sail up the Plata River in 1515. Solis landed about 70 miles east of the present Montevideo. He and all the men in the landing party were killed by the fierce Charrúa Indians, whose descendants for more than 300 years would be a plague to Spanish settlers.
Four years later another expedition sailed up the Plata River, this time under the famed Magellan. It is told that a member of the expedition exclaimed in Portuguese “Monte vide eu” (I see a mountain), and it was these words that later supplied the name of Uruguay’s capital — Montevideo.
The “mountain” seen by the lookout on the horizon may have been a small hill less than 500 in elevation, but in the flatness of the surrounding landscape it must have assumed mountainous proportions.
The long centuries between Magellan and independence were in fact a short tale soon told. During the long generations of the colonial period the plains of Uruguay were home for only two kinds of inhabitants: the wild cattle which overran the whole area within a few years after their release by the early Spaniards, and the equally wild gaucho, personification of independence as the early cowpoke of the North American western plains.
For long years the soil of Uruguay was a battleground over which the tide of empire flowed in the struggle between Spain and Portugal, or more exactly between the Spanish settlers at Buenos Aires and the Portuguese colony of Brazil. The Portuguese took over the site of Montevideo but the Spanish from Buenos Aires expelled them. In 1726 the city was finally established.
During the 19th century the British captured Montevideo — Spain was at that time allied with France against Great Britain. The invaders were driven out by the Spanish settlers, and Uruguay was the “Purple Land that England lost,” as W. H. Hudson nostalgically called it many years later. These episodes had a great effect. The colonists had repulsed a major power without aid from the mother country, and the desire for independence from Spain increased rapidly. The Uruguayan patriot who led the first struggles for freedom was José Gervasio Artigas, son of a rancher and descendant of a noble family of Aragon, Spain.
The history of the 19th century is for Uruguay one of intrigue, political dissension, repeated dictatorships, and mismanagement, which culminated in the financial ruin at the end of that century. In 1903, with the election of José Batlle, the country entered a new phase of its history. President Batlle was able to lay the foundation of one of the most progressive governments in the world. Batlle never abandoned a principle — the well being of humanity without distinction of class. He devoted his strength and wisdom to the creation of a people conscious of their rights and obligations. He is today one of the Uruguayan’s most admired by his countrymen.
The coming of World War II involved Uruguay in an incident of high dramatic quality. It was the battle of the Graf Spee in Plata Waters in December, 1939. The German battleship, fighting bravely but hopelessly against a British naval force, put into Montevideo harbor in damaged condition. When the Uruguayan government, in accordance with international law, required it to leave within a three-day period the ship was scuttled just outside the harbor to avoid a British coup de grace.
Montevideo
Uruguay’s capital is a neat, happy, clean and friendly city. It is one of the most progressive in South America. It is one in which one could spend a long and pleasant life. In fact, Montevideo is composed of three cities. The “Old City” dates from 1726 and has less than half a square mile in area. It occupies only the small peninsula extending west from the present Plaza Independencia. The peninsula forms a protecting arm for the large bay of Montevideo. Years later it spread out to include the “New City.” At the beginning of the present century another growth was under way to include what one might call the “Newest City.”
This statue of José Gervasio Arigas, in Salto, the capital of one of the northern provinces, commemorates the Uruguayan patriot who led in the first struggles for freedom.