BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
URUGUAY
Page 5
executive power is exercised by a Federal Council of nine members, representing six of the majority party and three of the minority, normally elected for four-years terms. The Presidency of the Council is rotated annually. In addition there is a bicameral Congress composed of a 99-member Chamber of Deputies and a 31-member Senate elected for four years. All citizens, including women, participate in the election.
In the field of letters Uruguay occupies an outstanding place. Uruguay has produced men like José Enrique Rodó (1872-1917) who has been called the “Latin American Emerson.” He is perhaps the first literary apostle of Americanism. By this term he meant Americanism of the Hemisphere. Ariel, a celebrated essay, underlines a spiritual unity for the Spanish American countries in the face of the devouring materialism that Rodó saw at that time in the United States. He recognized many North American virtues — religious liberty, widespread education, the dignity of labor — but pointed out that utilitarianism had transformed almost everything into materialistic terms. Rodó lived
The basis of Uruguay’s economic wealth lies in pastoral and agricultural activities. Due to an abundance of rich, natural pas-tureland, a year round temperate climate and a good supply of water, livestock raising has been the principal industry since colonial times.
At first, animals were mainly slaughtered for hides and wool resulting in great quantities of meat which neither could be wholly consumed domestically or shipped abroad. Meat packing plants (saladeros) were established next and their production of tasajo (jerked beef) gave a tremendous impetus to stock raising.
At the beginning of the Twentieth Century frigorificos (large freezing plants) came into existence, and their production of frozen and chilled meat did much to broaden the export market and further encourage the entire meat industry which they now dominate completely.
Today the cattle industry supplies meats, hides and skins both for domestic and foreign markets while sheep are raised in large numbers primarily for their wool. There are actually more sheep than cattle in Uruguay due to the higher prices and greater profit normally obtained for wool in world markets. Ninety percent of all wool produced is exported and this accounts for about forty percent of the value of total national exports. Meat exports and by-products account for about twenty percent of total value, and hides and skins for approximately eleven percent. Thus over seventy percent of all Uruguayan exports consist of animal products with more than three-fourths of the entire national area devoted to grazing.
Compared to stock raising, agriculture occupies a minor place in the national economy. Manufactured agricultural and grain
and wrote at a time of not a little ostentation on our part. His fame is great but his warnings are no longer taken too seriously in present-day Uruguay.
Juan Zorrilla de San Martin (1855-1931) is another famous Uruguayan known as a romantic poet. His Tabaré is a composition of beauty based on a Charrúa Indian theme. Then you will find names like Carlos Reyles (1868-1938) author of a book (Embrujo de Sevilla) The Witchery of Seville in which he pays homage to that historic Spanish City. Horacio Quiroga (1878-1937) gives us in his writings a sort of South American counterpart of Kipling’s Jungle Book. The names of two women poets are always associated with Uruguay — Delmira Agustini (1892-1914) and Juana de Ibarbourou still shining in their native land.
Uruguay’s cultural expression is rich and well rounded. But Uruguay’s culture belongs to the people. It is not the toy of a few. It is democratic and exercised by all Uruguayans, therefore it is vital. Uruguay is a nation of adults in the best sense of the word.
products account for about thirteen percent of the total value of exports and only about eight percent of the total national area is devoted to agricultural pursuits. This situation stems from the Nation’s early development when Uruguayan cowboys (gauchos) had little interest in cultivating land whose soil was more suited to cattle and sheep raising than farming in the first place.
During recent years there has been an increase in crop acreage and the number of people engaged in farming and emphasis
seems to be shifting from extensive cattle raising to intensive agriculture and dairying. The Government encourages this trend. In 1948 a land reform law of major significance was passed which gave it the right to break up large estates and sell the land to farmer cooperatives in smaller parcels.
Agricultural production is almost entirely for domestic consumption, the principal crops being cereal grains (wheat, corn, oats and barley) and linseed. Wheat provides the country’s biggest harvest, a large part being absorbed by Uruguayan mills which supply flour for both domestic and foreign markets.
In northern regions there are extensive groves of citrus fruits which command high prices. Oranges, lemons, grapefruit and tangerines are both exported and processed by domestic canning industries. Tomatoes, asparagus and beans and nearly all other kinds of truck vegetables are grown around Montevideo for internal consumption although there are some occasional exports. Production of milk, butter, cheese and cream are increasing. Since the beginning of this century, grape cultivation around Montevideo and wine making in that city have undergone extensive development.
Mining is of little importance in Uruguay, there being few commercially important mineral deposits. Some gold is mined in the northern part of the country. Other minerals known to exist include silver, copper, lead, zinc, antimony, manganese, iron, sulfur, asbestos, lignite and precious and semi-precious stones. There are, however, important deposits of such non-metallic minerals as marble, granite, talc, agates, opals, onyx and limestone, and quantities of common stone and sand are profitably exported to nearby countries.
Uruguay was one of the first Latin American countries to encourage the development of manufacturing industries, a policy dating
The Palacio Legislative is the meeting place of Uruguay's 99-member Chamber of Deputies and 31-member Senate.
AGRICULTURE, INDUSTRY AND TRADE
by Lou A. Phillips