Page 4
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
The cathedral on the Plaza Matriz in Montevideo is the oldest church in Uruguay. Montevideo has many other Catholic churches, two Methodist, one Anglican, one Baptist, two Adventist and six synagogues.
Probably nowhere else in the world does a city so dominate a country as Montevideo dominates Uruguay. It is not only the political capital but also the financial, commercial, industrial, social, cultural and religious center of the country. It is its port which mainly has made the city. In the “Old City” one finds that colonial atmosphere so interesting for the traveler — narrow streets, quaint walls and inscriptions, picturesque names reminiscent of the past.
Plaza Constitución is the heart of the city. There one finds the dignified cathedral, the Foreign Ministry occupying the old Cabildo, a bank, two large hotels and many business houses. A convenient dividing point between the old and the new cities is Montevideo’s main square — Plaza Independencia. Here centers much of the life of the city. Here is the great equestrian statue of Artigas, Uruguay’s Hero of Independence, and the Executive Palace. Here too is one of the finest hotels and also the Palacio Salvo with a great view of the city.
Running west from Plaza Independencia is Montevideo’s main street, the Avenida “18 de Julio” on which are found the big department stores, motion picture theatres, public buildings and offices of various kinds. The “18 of July” commemorates the birth of Uruguay’s first constitution — 1830.
At the end of this avenue, close to the Batlle Park, is the beautiful obelisk designed by Zorrilla de San Martín to honor those who wrote the first constitution.
Thirteen blocks away from the Plaza which marks its beginning, the Avenida forks, the southern branch running on to the coast in the suburb of Pocitos. It is at the fork in the Avenida that great statue of the gaucho stands, mounted and roweled, spear aloft, holding historic communion with the equestrian Artigas in the Plaza Independencia about a mile away.
Close by the Gaucho is the municipal building in front of which and filling an open space between it and “18 of Julio”, one of the principal ferias is held twice a week. On those mornings the whole paved area teems with the little stalls of the vendors of fruit, flowers, vegetables, meat, and almost everything edible one may wish.
If you go back to “18” to continue your progress out its length, you soon pass the Plaza of the 33, in memory of that brave band of patriots. A few blocks away you pass the University of Montevideo. Actually, the building houses only the Faculty of Law and the Faculty of Economic Sciences. The other faculties are physically far removed from one another.
At the end of Avenida “18” one enters a lovely, tree-shaded parkway forming the approach to Batlle Park. This Park honors one of Uruguay’s great citizens. Its major feature is the great Stadium opened in 1925 to celebrate the country’s hundredth birthday. Here fútbol fans gather by the thousands to see the national championships and other big games. Fútbol means soccer to the Uruguayans. Flere is also the “Covered Wagon” — that is the famous statue of the carreta and its oxen and mounted gaucho guide. The beautiful bronze group near the Stadium evokes the past as the football bowl and its thousands of fans do the present.
Another of Montevideo’s fine arteries is Avenida Agraciada. It points directly toward the Legislative Palace. It is one of the widest of the capital. The Legislative Palace is an impressive granite and marble structure. The explanation is simple: democratic Uruguay wanted its Congress to be more important than the Executive branch of the government. In its interior one can see Uruguay’s wealth in building stone: forty-five varieties of marble from the hinterland of the country are used. Beautiful carpets and woods,
stained-glass windows, and famous historic paintings contribute to make it an unusual structure.
One of Montevideo’s oldest parks is Prado. Its most original feature is its renowned rose garden containing more than 800 varieties. When they are in full bloom in November the roses make a spectacular riot of color and fully justify Montevideo’s nickname of the City of Roses. There are many others scattered all over the city. One of the largest and most popular is the park honoring the memory of José Enrique Rodó. It too has elaborate gardens thick with roses. Serving as a backdrop for them are ombú, palm, paradise, and eucalyptus trees. It has a large artificial lake with gondolas and small boats.
A long string of white sand, crescentshaped beaches extend like pearls on a necklace, for miles along the shores of the River Plata. The beaches — Ramirez, Pocitos, Buceo, Malvin, Carrasco — are the pride and joy of Montevideans. Winds and river current which have piled the clean, white sands have been generous to Montevideo. But it is in streets of the capital that the visitor sees much of the life of the city. The streets are crowded at almost any hour. The crowds may be the men and women of Montevideo going about their daily tasks. They may be the noisy, happy children entering or leaving the school buildings scattered throughout the city. They may be leaving the numerous motion picture theatres or the thousands of fans streaming home from the huge stadium in Batlle Park after a soccer game or the people gathered around one of the thousand newspaper and magazine kiosks which dot the central section. Hundreds will be seen in the sidewalk cafés and confiterías. The leisurely drinking of coffee and maté and eating of light between-meals snacks give a distinctly Parisian flavor to Montevideo life.
Montevideans are friendly people, dressed well because Montevideo is a prosperous city of middle-class wealth. All of them take a great pride in their city, their way of life, their culture. Montevideans enjoy their leisure time. Recreation is not a prerogative of a few. It belongs to all including the visitor. Enjoyment of sports means for them participation in sports.
Montevideo has fine restaurants. One of the best treats is the asado. It is an institution, a sort of a cousin to a barbecue but done up with all the finesse and variety that only a meat-loving and a meat-producing land can supply. The visitor is told that the asado con cuero is the best — the beef is grilled with the hide left on it to seal the juice and double the tastiness of the dish.
So Montevideo has everything — comfort, culture, beauty plus that extra something called friendliness.
Uruguay’s Distinction
In the political field Uruguay has a distinction of its own. No other country in the western hemisphere has a system similar to that of Uruguay. It is fundamentally democratic. President Batlle’s conviction that presidential dominance was a basic political evil led to the drafting of a new constitution in 1917 in which the idea of a collegiate executive was partially adopted. Today the