Page 8
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Parque Rodo is one of the oldest parks in the capital, and is famous for its rose garden with more than 800 varieties of blooms.
meat packing establishments. Said to be the best port on the Uruguay River, it is 120 miles from Buenos Aires and 250 miles from Montevideo by water. Founded in 1859, and called at first Villa Independencia, it did not gain much prominence until late in the last century when the experiments of Jorge Gilbert paved the way for extracting and exporting meat juices. The industry grew rapidly and now has a major part in Uruguayan trade in meat and meat products.
No discussion of Uruguay would be complete without some description of the social advances which have been achieved. In fact, Uruguay has been called the social laboratory of the Americas. Government revenues are used for financing old age pensions, free medical services and the protection of the poor, indigent, sick and unemployed. An eight hour day and 44 hour week have been established for workers; even farm and domestic labor is protected by legislation. There is a minimum wage law and laws regulating the conditions under which women and children may work. Liability insurance and vacations with pay are compulsory and retirement funds and pensions after ten to thirty years of service are provided. The right to form labor unions and to strike in accordance with law is guaranteed by the Constitution. Uruguay was the first South American country to enfranchise women, and to legalize divorce. Uruguay was also the first Latin American nation to effect the separation of church and state.
Even before winning her independence, Uruguay adopted a forward looking system of education. Preliminary legislation passed
during the struggle for independence was followed by the enactment in 1827 of the first public education law.
Most far reaching of Uruguayan cultural achievements was the educational reform of Jose Pedro Varela. Convinced that the spread of learning among people is the basis of true democracy Varela devoted his life to making public education a national cause. His proposed law was passed in 1877 centralizing the country’s schools. All branches of learning, including rural education, were encouraged and schools and libraries were built; modern curricula stressing scientific, humanistic and practical training were introduced, and primary education was extended and made compulsory.
Education from kindergarten through the university is free to Uruguayans and foreigners who wish to study; even books and laboratory fees are paid by the government. Religion is not taught in public schools.
The Uruguayan Government has built three large model schools where the latest developments in education are tried out and passed on to the nation’s normal schools, teacher training centers and most secondary schools.
Uruguay is a rare and wonderful vacation land because it is both a fun country and a serious nation. That is, there are exceptional opportunities to enjoy oneself on the one hand, but enough to learn and profit by on the other to make a stay extremely worthwhile. No nation with so high a regard for the education and well-being of its citizens could help but hold interest for United States travelers.
URUGUAY
QUICK REFERENCE FACTS
From the PAA Travel Guide "New Horizons"
LOCATION • • • Uruguay, the smallest of the South American countries, lies between Brazil and Argentina on the Atlantic coast. Montevideo is less than 150 miles from Buenos Aires.
CHARACTERISTICS . . . This delightful little country is one of South America’s famous playgrounds. Montevideo, the charming, gracious capital, is situated on the Rio de Plata. A chain of beach resorts which extends for some 200 miles up the coast provides an unparalleled vacation land. Uruguay is famous for its excellent hotels, its casinos, its wide stretches of sandy beaches. Punta del Este is known as the Riviera of South America and is the gathering spot for wealthy South Americans who enjoy yachting, aquaplaning, gay night life (at the casinos), the luxury of the cabana-dotted beaches, and the magnificent hotels.
POPULATION . • • Estimated 2,500,000 in 1957. A third of it in Montevideo. Largest cities of interior are Salto (48,000) and Paysandu (50,000), both on the banks of the Uruguay River.
SIZE • • • 72,172 square miles, about the size of North Dakota.
CAPITAL . . . Montevideo, with a population of about 850,000, the size of St. Louis.
GOVERNMENT ... A Republic with a “pluripersonal executive,” that is, instead of a President there is a Council of nine men. Otherwise, Uruguay’s Government is exactly like that of any other republic with advanced social legislation (Uruguay was called the “the first welfare state”).
HOW TO GET THERE ... By luxurious DC-7B Clipper service 24 hours (elapsed time) from New York. By ship from New Orleans or New York, 17 to 19 days.
The information presented above is from the PAA travel book “New Horizons World Guide”. (1959 edition.)
It contains over 16,000 facts about 89 countries in its 576 pages, with maps and photographic illustrations. Thousands of teachers have found it useful to guide them in their travels, and to assist them in the class room.
Available at all Pan American World Airways ticket offices, or mail your order, enclosing one dollar to Dept. NH-E, P. O. Box 1111, New York 17, N. Y.