PRESS FLIGHT
(Continued from page T-l)
taxied away from the terminal. Flight service personnel demonstrated the use of life jackets as the Boeing 707 rolled to the takeoff runway, its 230,400 pounds of gross weight riding easily on the 10 wheels (two on the nose wheel and four on each side of the main landing gear).
Suddenly we were streaking along the concrete strip, our speed up to 115 miles an hour in 29 seconds. In 15 seconds more we were off the ground, having used 6,450 feet of the 10,000-foot runway. Captain Ben Harrell pointed the Mayflower’s nose into the night sky and we climbed steeply as the lights of New York faded fast. At 7:36 p. m., 26 minutes after takeoff, we were at 26,000 feet and heading for 33,000, our over-ocean altitude.
Passengers chatted easily over the noise of the jet engines which had the sound of a distant waterfall. For the first time we had a chance to look around the plane and inspect its cocktail lounge in the forward part and its two galleys, in the front and rear. Cabin decor is a soothing blend of grays and blues with the seats a silvery shade.
A unique feature of the Boeing 707 is the passenger service unit above each seat. Within it are individual lighted “fasten seat belt” and “no smoking” signs, stewardess call button, seat light, temperature control tube, and oxygen mask for instant use in the remote event of a drop in the cabin pressurization.
Captain Harrell strolled into the passenger cabin to tell us that our crew totalled 14, of whom six were pilots and flight engineers, and the remainder pursers and stewardesses. He pointed out that this was a larger crew than would be on scheduled flights, but they were along tonight because Pan American was familiarizing its personnel with this new type plane.
While stewardesses started the cocktail service we ran our personal checks of the steadiness of the plane — balancing coins and cigarettes on end. They balanced! The speed of the jet had risen to 600 miles an hour but inside there was no sensation of movement as we flew in darkness with a cloud layer dimly visible far below.
We mused on the marvels of the jet age as we looked at the changing colors in the huge oval dome lights set in the deep blue colored ceiling. As we watched, the opaque shade faded and dotted lights of “stars” appeared. Gradually the gray hue deepened into a dark blue speckled with pinpoints of lights.
By then we were an hour and a half out of New York, heading northeast. My seat-mate, from a St. Louis newspaper, remarked that in the time it had taken us to travel nearly 800 miles his brother-in-law back home had been able only to leave his office in the downtown section of the city and work his way through traffic to Webster Groves in suburban St. Louis.
We finished our appetizers just as the stewardesses working from both the front and rear galleys, brought in the steaks. In response to queries as to how they could
RA.IV AMERICAN
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
Page T-3
ADVENTURES IN EDUCATION
Pan Ain’s annual directory of educational tours, “Adventures in Education” now is ready for distribution.
This year, in keeping with the times, it is called “Jet Age Adventures in Education.”
The book lists 131 tour offerings by travel agents, colleges and individuals, representing nearly 300 different group movements, since many of the tours are in sections, departing on various dates. Many of these tours offer college credit.
Adventures also presents much information about the subject generally. For one thing, it attempts a definition of the term educational travel, a term which means different things to different people, and it will be interesting to see if you agree with Pan Am’s definition.
The book also explains such matters as Pay Later, tour conductor’s privilege (which is free transportation in return for organizing a group) and Family Plan. Other sources of information about educational travel are listed.
For your free copy address a post card to Educational Director, Pan American, P.O. Box 1908, Grand Central Station, New York 17, N.Y., and ask for “Adventures in Education.”
have been prepared so quickly, the stewardesses explained that the Clipper Mayflower — like all the Boeing 707 jets, has new infra-red ovens with a quartz panel below the electric coils which will cook 16 steaks to rare, medium or well-done perfection in seven minutes. The girls said they call it “cooking with glass” to describe the results achieved by radiating heat through a glass plate.
Dinner was a leisurely affair. One of the newsmen finished his coffee, had an after-dinner brandy, and remarked that he had just eaten a 1,600-mile meal. He said the tastiness of the meal, and the spaciousness of the huge cabin reminded him of a dinner he had in a fine Chicago restaurant the night before he left to board the Clipper in New York.
Captain Harrell announced that we would not go non-stop to Paris as the regular service calls for. Instead, he intended to put down in the Azores in order to familiarize some of the pilots on board with the airport there, Santa Maria, a port of call on Pan American’s regular trans-Atlantic routes to Lisbon. He said the distance from New York to Santa Maria was 2,610 miles and the Clipper Mayflower should make it in about five hours.
We were less than an hour out of Santa Maria when Captain Harrell’s voice came through our individual speakers to say we were in luck and would see a volcano erupting. We peered through the windows on the left side of the plane and there it was — a fiery glow far below attesting to the presence of Capelinhos, the volcano on Fayal, one of the islands in the Azores. What a way to sightsee!
We touched down in Santa Maria at 12:19 a. m., Tuesday, (New York time) and discovered we had arrived at a place familiar to all from history studies of long ago. For just off the airport was the small cove where Christopher Columbus and his tiny fleet put in to take on water for the last, long, lonely leg of a journey in search of a new route to the East which weeks later landed them in the New World.
There was just time for the Clipper Mayflower to refuel its huge tanks and the passengers to look around the airport and buy a few souvenirs. Then we were off again, at 1:47 a. m.
A few of the passengers napped, sliding the plastic panels over the windows to shut out the morning light, for although it was only 2:30 in the morning, the first shades of dawn were bathing the nose of the Mayflower. Most of us sacrificed sleep in favor of looking ahead for the first signs of Europe.
The French coastal country emerged through the morning mist as varying squares of green. Then appeared the suburbs of Paris and the Mayflower settled to a bumpless landing at 5:23 a. m., New York time. We were at Le Bourget Airport, the same airport which had welcomed Charles Lindbergh in 1927. He had made the flight alone in 33 and one-half hours; we had done it en masse, and in living room comfort in eight and a half hours flying time.
We stepped into the Paris sunshine and walked into the terminal, passing on our way the Russian jet TU-104 of Czechoslovakian Airlines — a striking reminder that the jet age really has arrived on both sides of the Atlantic.
We were to be in France only three and a half days and the newsmen set out to make the most of their stay.
Some took conducted tours throughout the city; others scattered to individual spots to cover the specific assignments their editors had given.
Many followed a program prepared by Pan American which took them into the French champagne district, an area which abounded with names familiar to students of World War I battlefields, and included also the famous Gothic Cathedral at Reims. The cathedral was begun in 1211 and was the church where French kings traditionally were anointed; it was a popular photographic subject for the American visitors.
The tour, which was made in chartered buses through rolling countryside and numerous French villages, took the aviation writers in the group to the U. S. Air Force Base at Laon, a unit in the NATO Defense base system.
By Friday, October 24, the American press party had reassembled at Le Bourget Airport and all were looking forward to the homeward trip. This was to be an all-daylight flight.
Again the jet was the Clipper Mayflower and the pilot in command, Captain Harrell, with the same crew as on the eastward trip.
A surge of the Mayflower’s four jet engines (Continued on page T-4)