Page 12
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
____________STUDY UNIT
AUDIO-VISUAL AIDS
*
Selected by Esther L. Berg
Audio-Visual Consultant, Chairman Audio-Visual Section of New York Society for the Experimental Study of Education.
Motion Pictures
THE NEAR HORIZON - 18 min. sound, black and white. United World Films. Government Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
Produced in 1955 by Thomas Carven Films Corporation for United States Information Agency. Covers past progress and current economic developments in Latin America; illustrates principles of modern economic development and interdependence; shows progress in industry, agriculture, power and transportation; and describes the extent of intra-hemispheric trade.
MONTEVIDEO FAMILY - 16 min. sound, black and white. United World Films, Government Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
This film produced by Julien Bryan for the Office of Inter-American Affairs, depicts a day in the life of a middle-class family, living in Montevideo, capital of Uruguay. In as much as Uruguay is one of the few republics in South America where the middle-class predominates, this film can serve as a point of departure for discussion on the economic set-up in South America and their standards of living.
URUGUAY — 20 min. sound, black and white. United World Films, Government Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
Produced by Julien Bryan for the Office of the Inter-American Affairs. Describes the industries, cattle raising, agriculture and economic well-being of the people of Uruguay. The life of the people in Uruguay is compared with the life of the people in the United States.
YOUNG URUGUAY - 17 min. sound, black and white. United World Films, Government Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
This film also one of the series produced by Julien Bryan, presents a very comprehensive picture of the young people of Uruguay. It shows them at home, at play and at school. It highlights the progressive steps being made in education. It includes scenes of primary schools and schools, which have special classes for children from families, whose histories show tuberculosis. It also shows schools in the rural areas, as well as athletics in the secondary schools.
BUENOS AIRES AND MONTEVIDEO - 11 min. sound, color. United World Films, Government Film Dept., 1445 Park Avenue, New York City.
A tour through the capitals of Argentina and Uruguay as seen in normal times and also during a carnival.
THE BRIDGE — 30 min. sound, black and white. New York University Film Library, 26 Washington Place, New York City.
Produced by Willard Van Dyke for the Foreign Policy Association. This film deals with the economic basis of trade relations between Latin-America and the rest of the world. The film’s major emphasis is on the three most important economic problems of Latin-America, the need for diversification of agriculture, industrialization and transportation. It develops the thesis that air transportation and travel will probably play a larger part than anything else in modernizing the remote, inaccessible regions of Latin America.
Editor’s note:
“Although not geared to Uruguay, per se, it was thought advisable to include this outstanding film which presents an all-over view, the background of the economic problems of the whole of South America.”
Filmstrips
RANCH AND CITY IN URUGUAY-51 frames, in color, silent with captions and title frames. Encyclopedia Britannica Films, Inc., Wilmette, Chicago.
Produced by Dr. Clarence W. Sorenson, Illinois State Normal University, one of the series, “South America — Eastern and Southern Lands.”
Authentic color photographs and maps combine with carefully prepared text material to provide an excellent picture of the physical, social and economic geography of Uruguay. Describes the work of the gauchos of Uruguay, depicts harvest time and roundup time on one of the large ranches. Shows Montevideo, the capital, and how it depends on the farms and ranches.
At the end of the filmstrip, there are a series of comprehensive questions for review and discussion.
LANDS AND PEOPLES OF SOUTHERN SOUTH AMERICA - CHILE, ARGENTINA, PARAGUAY, URUGUAY - 57 frames, color, silent with captions. Society for Visual Education, 1345 West Diversey Parkway, Chicago 14, 111.
Correlated with Rand McNally’s “Geography of the American Peoples,” by Wallace Robert McConnell.
Photographs and maps depict the home life in the varying areas of the pampas, the tropical lowlands, and southern Andes. These scenes are contrasted with life in the coastal cities.
COUNTRIES OF THE RIO DE LA PLATA - URUGUAY, PARAGUAY, ARGENTINA — 45 frames, silent with captions, color. McGraw Hill Text-Film Division, McGraw Hill, 330 West 42nd Street, New York City.
Produced by Popular Science Publishing Company. One of the “Latin America — regions and countries of South America” series.
A photographic panoramic view of these three countries — rich in natural resources,
but varied in size, importance and political environment.
URUGUAY — 36 frames, silent, with title frames, black and white. Stillfilms, Inc., 35 South Raymond Ave., Pasadena 1, Calif. This stillfilm includes 17 pictures and 19 titles. It shows pictures of the capital, Montevideo, of the Indians, the gauchos or cowboys, and also of the chief industries, meat, mutton and wool.
URUGUAY — 39 frames, silent, black and white. Society for Visual Education, 1345 W. Diversey Parkway, Chicago 11, 111. Photographs show contemporary life, industries, natural resources and historic landmarks.
ARGENTINA, PARAGUAY AND URUGUAY — 54 frames, silent with captions, black and white. Stanley Bowman Company, Valhalla, New York.
Produced by Foley and Edmunds. Includes sequences on Uruguay, showing some of the industries and products. There are views of Montevideo and of the life of the people. There is an accompanying script.
OUR SOUTH AMERICAN NEIGHBORS -A series of 9 filmstrips, each 27 frames, silent with captions, in color, produced by Education Projections Inc., 10 East 40th Street, New York City.
This series presents the food, clothing, shelter, transportation and occupations throughout South America with emphasis on the people and their adaptation to the environment. Sequences on Uruguay are included.
SOUTH AMERICA, A REGIONAL STUDY
— A series of 9 filmstrips, each 27 frames, silent with captions, in color. Produced by Eyegate House, Inc., 146-01 Archer Avenue, Jamaica 35, New York.
The titles of the filmstrips are: Understanding Our Latin-America Neighbors, The Historic Background, The Geography of South America, Life in the Tropical Forest, Life in the High Mountains, Farm Lands and Southern South America, Industries and Products, the People of South America, Animal Life in South America.
These filmstrips present a comprehensive view of our South American Good Neighbors and teachers will find many items in them which relate to Uruguay.
Records
Folk Music of South America — Uruguay. Music of Argentina (FW 8841-FW-8842). Folkways Records, 117 West 46th Street, New York City, 33% rpm, L.P. record.
Uruguay, bordering on Argentina, boasts of a similar store of provocative traditional music — the songs of daily life; the mother tending her baby, the cowboy riding the range, the festival music, the dance music, the love songs, all in variations of Spanish mustizo and Indian characteristics of all of South American music. Although it is a small country in a large continent, its music is as alluring as its larger neighbors. The fascinating range of native instruments and styles include “the quena,” “the charango,” “the bombo,” “zapateo,” “the fandango,” all virile and spirited.