Page 10
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
Maté is a popular drink in Uruguay, as it is in Argentina. Brewed in a manner similar to tea, it is sipped from a gourd, through a silver tube.
grounds; favorable climate; sports, soccer, horseracing, baseball, yacht races, golf, tennis, fishing, horseback riding.
5.	Mathematics:—concentration of population in Montevideo; graphs to show distribution of population and employment; figures on exports and imports; study of economics of Uruguay; 26 hours by plane from the United States; 17—19 days by ship; 2 hours later than Eastern Standard time; monetary unit, peso; free market.
6.	Science: — few trees; few minerals, semi-precious stones and gold; many beaches; reverse seasons, good climate; 45 varieties of marble; 800 varieties of roses; ocean and river coastline.
B.	SKILLS: — in this unit emphasis should be given to the categorizing of information to be used as a basis for comparison in discussion.
C.	ATTITUDES, INTERESTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS:
1.	An appreciation of the many forward looking practices of Uruguay.
2.	A realization that size need not regulate importance.
3.	An interest in the government setup; welfare and education laws.
4.	An understanding of the contributions made by Uruguayan statesmen, past and present.
5.	An appreciation of the need for further cooperation and understanding among all of the Americas.
6.	A realization of the interdependence of the countries of the Western hemisphere.
V. SUGGESTED ACTIVITIES:
A. THINGS TO DO:
1.	Do research on the many men who had an effect on Uruguayan history and prepare short bibliographies of each.
2.	Plan an air trip for yourself from your home town. Highlight the places of interest you would be sure to include.
3.	Make a map or Uruguay showing its important industrial centers and products.
4.	Interview someone who has been to Uruguay and get some additional information.
5.	Write for more information and pictures.
6.	Make a collection of pictures of Uruguay.
7.	Review some of the visual aids listed in this issue.
8.	Debate Uruguay’s ideas of a democratic government and welfare state.
9.	Display Uruguayan products.
10.	Add to the Spanish word list given in this issue.
B. CULMINATION:
1.	Make slides on Uruguay and plan a travelogue for other classes in the school.
2.	Prepare a quiz on important facts .about this small republic.
3.	Any of the items under THINGS TO DO may be used as a culmination.
VI. LEADS TO NEW UNITS: A study of
this republic might lead to:
1.	A desire to find out more about Paraguay, another small republic.
2.	An interest in other member nations
of the States.	Organization of American
SOME	SPANISH WORDS
saladeros	meat packing plants
tasajo	beef
frigoríficos	freezing plants
gauchos	cowboys
la carreta	the cart
monte vide eu	I see a mountain (Montevideo)
avenida	avenue
fútbol	soccer
confiterías	gathering places (similar to ice cream parlors)
mate	native drink (tea)
asado	barbecue
This ancient fortress at Montevideo now is the site of a weather observation and reporting
station.