Page 6
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
from the beginning of this century and followed consistently. As with other Latin American countries, the depression with its exchange difficulties, World War II with its shortages of manufactured products for import, and generally increased markets for domestic goods at home and abroad, have stimulated the growth of domestic industry. Government import duties and quota systems also have encouraged this trend. Development, however, is severely limited by the fact that Uruguayan industry is largely dependent upon imports of raw materials and fuels. There is a lack of commercially important deposits of coal, iron and petroleum although hydroelectric installations are reducing dependence on imported fuels somewhat. The government grants tariff reductions or exemptions on raw materials imported into the country, and those export commodities manufactured of the raw materials which are available in Uruguay are accorded especially favorable exchange rates.
The Uruguayan Government through autonomous agencies created by the state engages in numerous industrial activities operating meat packing, chemical, petroleum and cement plants in addition to communication facilities, electric power, banking, mortgage financing, insurance, railroads,, water works, port works, hotels and pleasure resorts. It also exercises a monopoly on the importation and resale of alcohol and its derivatives. Governmental policy has encouraged the establishment of a large number of small factories which produce for both export and domestic consumption.
Export commodities are produced mainly by the factories dealing with food processing, which, with the working of leather, constituted the earliest type of industry in Uruguay. Meat processing is carried on at frigorificos and saladeros and at factories where meat extracts are produced.
The Frigorifico Nacional has a monopoly on the sale of meat to Montevideo’s inhabitants, running one of the frigorificos in that city. The others are owned by United States and British companies. The packing plants prepare canned meats, frozen and chilled meats, extracts of beef, guano fertilizer, dried blood, fats, glue and other by-products, between forty and fifty percent of the total being exported.
Factories which manufacture for home consumption, articles which otherwise would have to be imported include wheat mills, rice and maize mills, crushing mills for oils from sunflower seeds and peanuts, and refineries for raw sugar imports. A wide variety of other products are also manufactured including bread, biscuits, spaghetti, vermicelli, rubber tires, chemicals, wood and paper, leather, glassware, building materials and beverages. A textile industry uses domestic wool and imports of other raw materials such as cotton from Paraguay.
The outstanding feature of Uruguay’s export trade is the extent of the country’s dependence on the products of the pastoral industry, especially wool, frozen and chilled beef, canned meats and cattle hides. These are the products which bring in foreign exchange, gold and essential imports.
One of the most notable features of the import trade is the increase in the relative importance of imports for materials and equipment for industry, in large part machinery, fuel, raw materials and semi-finished manufactures.
Raw materials account for about one-fourth of total imports, automotive vehicles and machinery in general for over one-third, and gold and coins for almost one-fifth. The remainder is made up of combustibles, lubricants, construction materials, foodstuffs and other dry goods and general merchandise.
The United States supplies about one-fourth of Uruguayan imports and buys about one-fourth of its exports. Other principal suppliers are Great Britain, Brazil, Germany, Venezuela, France and Belgium. Other principal purchases of Uruguayan exports are Great Britain, France, Italy, Belgium and Germany.
One of Uruguay’s largest industries, and a substantial source of foreign exchange, is tourism. United States vacationists often show a tendency to plan a one or two day stay in Montevideo enroute to or from Rio de Janeiro or Buenos Aires. The more wise and experienced traveler will however, take a tip from thousands of vacationists living in South America, and plan longer visits in Uruguay.
Every year thousands of people from neighboring countries flock to the miles of splendid seaside resorts stretching for miles along the shore of the Rio de la Plata. Some of the finest and most luxurious resorts on the Continent are located along the Uruguayan coastline. The majority of the ocean resorts center around palatial casino-hotels where service is of the best and where the range of accommodations fit any pocketbook.
There is Atlantida, about 35 miles from Montevideo, surrounded by beautiful forests of pine and eucalyptus with excellent boating and fishing facilities; there is Piriapolis, facing a horseshoe bay with newly planned streets stretching inland toward a ring of hills.
Then there is Punta del Este, situated on a breeze swept peninsula jutting far out into the Atlantic, and one of the smartest and gayest resorts of all. Just three hours by road and one hour by plane from Montevideo, it is a center for society from Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay, with bathing, golfing and sailing facilities, a luxurious casino and all kinds of summer homes from palatial mansions to quaint chalets.
In addition, there is Santiago Vazquez on the banks of the Santa Lucia River which is famous for feasts prepared from the excellent fish (some of which are 75 pounds) found in its river; Colonia Suiza with comfortable hotels managed in the best Swiss tradition and operated by Swiss immigrants; and the quieter and more sedate La Floresta nestled among trees with summer cottages for large or small families. And these are just a few.
But the first goal of Pan American World Airways Clipper travelers is sure to be Montevideo, the nation’s capital and the hub of its political, economic and social life. The city has a population of 850,000 and is the nation’s principal port of entry and the focal point of the country’s transportation system and commerce. Lying on the north shore of the River Plata on Horseshoe Bay, Montevideo covers an area of about 210 square miles and is laid out in accordance with a modern, simple and efficient plan with three well defined districts kept more or less distinct by zoning regulations.
The Old City, built on a peninsula, is the commercial and financial center. Its Plaza Constitution, the original square of the city, is located in the center of the district on its principal street.
In Uruguay, as in Argentina, the cowboys are known as gauchos. Cattle raising and meat packing provide a major part of Uruguay's wealth.