BY FLYING CUPPER TO
URUGUAY	Page 7
the tanning industry is of great importance, this being concentrated almost entirely in Montevideo.
More than three-fourths of the entire foreign trade of the Republic passes through the port. The harbor consists of a semi-circular bay open to the southeast where two breakwaters provide ample protection from high waves. Although as a whole it is shallow, an adequate area has been dredged to accommodate ocean going vessels. Around this
Spreading out from the peninsula is the New City in which most of the modern architectural development has taken place, including the splendid buildings of the National Government, office buildings and churches. Especially beautiful is the Legislative Palace, a magnificent structure built wholly of native marble, granite and fine woods. Its lower part is gray granite while its two upper floors provide a color contrast of rose marble crowned by several symbolic groups and decorative motifs. The Parque Jose Batlle y Ordonez, located in the New City, contains an unique lifesize bronze group called La Carreta (The Cart) commemorating Uruguayan pioneers. The third district of the city is residential, containing beautiful homes with large, flowering gardens facing broad and shady streets.
The climate is mild and temperate and due to the country’s position south of the Equator, the seasons are reverse of those of the United States. The average temperature during the coldest months of June, July and August is 52° while during the hottest months of January and February it averages 73°. An excellent transit system conveniently connects all sections of the Capital.
The processing industries of Uruguay which are centered in Montevideo are closely connected with the pastoral and agricultural economy. The major portion of the country’s produce is brought to the city by rail and highway for processing, export or local consumption.
Cattle, sheep and hog slaughtering and meat packing are the main industries, followed by the processing of agricultural products, shipping and marketing. Important advances have been made in the manufacture of woolen textiles, furniture, bottles and glassware, paper and paper articles, soap, candy, enameled ware and flour. Naturally
Uruguay's plains resemble those of the United States by providing grazing land for beef cattle. They differ, as may be seen in this photo, in being dotted with palm trees, where
sage brush would be found
Uruguay's capital is said to consist of three cities, the view in this photo being the "Old City". The other two sections of Montevideo are the "New City" and the "Newest City".
dredged area modern loading and unloading and ancillary facilities have been constructed.
The second city of the Republic is Salto which is connected by railroad, highway and steamer with Montevideo and by railroad with Brazil. With a population of 40,000 it is a center of livestock and agricultural industries. There is some wine production and large scale beef farming but these industries are minor compared to the great orange and tangerine groves that surround the city.
Paysandu, the third city of Uruguay, is 298 miles from Montevideo. Founded in 1772, the city is often called the Queen of the north because of its active commerce. It has flour mills, tanneries, saw mills, canning factories, creameries and breweries. Its population numbers 40,000.
Mercedes, an agricultural and livestock center, has a population of 35,000. Founded in 1781, the city stands on the south bank of the Rio Negro about 30 miles from its junction with the Rio Uruguay. It is a favored health resort and a picturesque center for yachting and fishing.
San Jose, with a population of 25,000, lies sixty miles northwest of Montevideo on the San Jose River. Founded in 1783, during the uprising of the Thirty-Three it was the site of the provisional government of Uruguay. Regarded as one of the most important provincial towns, San Jose is also one of the most advanced trading in grain and other agricultural produce. There are also several flour mills in the city.
Canelones, with 20,000 people, lies 27 miles north of Montevideo and is reached by bus or rail. It is in che center of the grain growing district and has several flour mills.
Fray Bentos is a busy port of 20,000, with