December 1958
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. XV, No. #■ X
JET CLIPPERS OPEN NEW AGE OF TRANSPORTATION
JET CLIPPER SERVICE
Pan Am’s Jet Clippers started daily service to Paris on October 26, extended this schedule once a week to Rome in November, began the service to London November 16.
Other routes will have Jet service as additional aircraft are delivered — total orders are for 44 Jet Clippers. Included in this total will be six Jet Stratoliners (Boeing 707-121), 17 Boeing Intercontinentals (B-707-321) and 21 Douglas DC-8’s.
Fares are unchanged, and as an ex^ ample, the Clipper Thrift Fare for economy service New York to London is $453.60 round trip. To Paris, it is $489.60.
The initial trans-Atlantic schedules are with Jet Stratoliners having dual configuration, with economy and de luxe classes on the same aircraft in separate compartments. There are places for 111 passengers, 40 in the de luxe President Special section and 71 in Thrift.
The Jet Clipper is more than a faster, more comfortable aircraft. It is a major step forward in the history of transportation.
Shrinking the world by 40 per cent, the Jet Clipper fleet will bring all the major capitals of the world within a day’s journey of each other.
Jet speeds will make it possible for people who have never left their national boundaries to visit other countries. Vacation travelers will take two and three-week trips to lands once considered remote and distant.
Businessmen can “commute” to their international branches. Scientists and scholars can meet frequently and exchange ideas with their colleagues in other lands. Cargo and mail will be sped to their destinations in almost half the time required for piston-engined aircraft.
The Boeing 707, first of the Jet Clipper fleet which will usher in this new age of transportation, is larger, faster and more comfortable than its piston-engined predecessors and has many other striking fea-(<Continued on page T-2)
Pan American's first ¡et, The Boeing 707 "Clipper America", showing the two main entrance and exit doors, that make possible rapid loading and unloading of the plane.
CLIPPER MAYFLOWER INTRODUCES PRESS TO JET TRAVEL
by Robert W. Wigginton
I was one of 104 modern-day “pilgrims” making a trip to Europe in a Mayflower and in a manner which never could have been visualized in the wildest dreams of the original pilgrims. The difference was that instead of tossing about on the Atlantic for weeks, we were to soar above it in an ocean crossing that would take only hours in the Clipper Mayflower, a jet luxury airliner bringing a new dimension to international travel.
We were making transportation history and everyone on board knew it. The passengers, selected to preview the jet service Pan American would inaugurate the following week, were top newspaper and magazine, radio and television men and women, selected from the press of the nation. They were travel sophisticates, specialists who had been probing the far corners of the globe for years, riding on every conveyance that moves on the ground, sea, or in the air — but this was to be a new experience even for them, and the sense of drama was in the air when our bus reached New York International Airport
(Idlewild), the evening of Monday, October 20th.
There was our Clipper, half as long as a football field, crouched on the floodlit apron outside of Idlewild’s terminal. The white-painted fuselage with its blue strip and the swept-back wings reflected photographers’ flash bulbs as passengers filed aboard from two stairways, one at the sleek nose of the plane and the other three-quarters of the way to the rear.
Muted music greeted us as we entered the cabin. White jacketed pursers and blue-uniformed stewardesses directed us to our seats — 40 forward in the deluxe section of the cabin and 71 in the rear with a partition separating the sections. The seats, spacious throughout, are four across in the forward part and six across in the rear — the deluxe-economy configuration for Pan American’s service to Paris and London.
A sound like a huge vacuum cleaner, far in the distance, penetrated the cabin and we (<Continued on page T-3)