Page 2
WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER
STUDY UNIT
OUR CLIPPER TRIP TO URUGUAY
Uruguay is located on the south-eastern coast of the South American continent, at approximately the half-way point in a circuit around South America (see map). So our Clipper trip to Uruguay may well be planned as an R.S.A., or Round South America, whether we leave from the western part of the United States, the midwest or the east coast.
Here are some possible routings:
San Francisco - Los Angeles - Guatemala -Panama City - Lima - Santiago - Buenos Aires - Montevideo - Rio de Janeiro - Caracas
-	New York City, then across the U.S.A. to San Francisco.
New Orleans - Panama City - Lima - Santiago - Buenos Aires - Montevideo - Rio de Janeiro - Caracas - Panama City - New Orleans.
New York City - Miami - Panama City -Lima - Santiago - Buenos Aires - Montevideo
-	Rio de Janeiro - Caracas - New York City.
Many other routings are possible.
In each of the three itineraries outlined above, part of the transportation is via Panagra (Pan American Grace Airways), affiliated company in the Pan American World Airways System operating on the west coast of South America. The circle starting from San Francisco, for example, is via Pan American from San Francisco to Panama City, Panagra from Panama City to Buenos Aires and then Pan Am again
up the east coast and all the way to New York City.
The one starting and ending at New York City includes another type of airline operation — an interchange. “El Inter-americano” is the name of the service and three airlines are included in the arrangement: Pan American, Panagra and National. It is a direct, through plane service, in Panagra aircraft. Departing from New York, the airplane is flown as a schedule of National Airlines, by a National flight crew. At Miami, a Pan American crew takes charge and flies the airplane to Panama City. There, where the Panagra route begins, a Panagra crew boards the airplane, flies it down the west coast of South America to Santiago, and then over the Andes and the Argentina pampas to Buenos Aires.
For our Clipper trip to the Uruguayan capital, we’ll settle on one of the routings above, or a variation, and then consult a travel agent or a Pan American office to arrange a booking. At this time, also, we’ll get information about the documents that we’ll need and the regulations with which we must comply.
Uruguay requires that you carry a passport. This is obtained from the Passport Division of the Department of State in Washington, from the Passport Agency of the Department in Miami, New York or San Francisco, or at the office of the Clerk of a Federal Court.
To get a passport, you apply in person at one of these places, and you‘11 need your birth certificate, two passport pictures (front view, 3" x 3" on a white background, and $10 for the fee.)
For Uruguay, no visa required, but visas and/or tourist cards may be needed for other countries visited enroute during the trip to Uruguay, or on the way back, especially if stopovers are contemplated. So we check on these requirements with our travel adviser, whether a travel agent, or a Pan Am representative.
If a visa is needed for any particular country, we go to a consular office of that country taking the passport along, signify our intention to visit the country, complying with the required procedure, which varies from one country to another, and when these requirements have been met the consular officer or his clerk will put a rubber stamp impression in the passport which signifies that we have so complied. This is the visa. A tourist card serves approximately the same purpose and is obtained in the same way, but it is a separate document not becoming a part of the passport. For some countries, it is sufficient to carry only the tourist card, and a passport is not necessary.
For this trip, however, we do need the passport, and we also have to meet certain medical requirements. For one thing, it is necessary to have a small pox vaccination certificate, and it is necessary also to have this certificate for re-entry into the United States at the end of the journey. Uruguay requires certificates of yellow fever and cholera immunizations for those arriving there from infected areas.
Another phase of preparation for a trip to Uruguay is the planning of a wardrobe and shopping for the items that may be needed. Remember that the seasons are reversed — when it is summer in the United States, it is winter below the equator.
For the Uruguayan summer you’ll want the same type of summer clothes you would wear at home. Uruguay has outstanding beaches, so swimming togs will be wanted. Sports clothes are in order. Life is informal, but the ladies usually find it useful to have short dinner dresses in cotton. A light top coat and a sweater should be included. For winter wear, the type of clothing suitable in the United States for a fall day in the U.S.A. is appropriate, for the winters in Uruguay are not severe — the average temperature in Montevideo in July and August, this being mid-winter, is about forty-four degrees.
Another item of preparation, one which should be started at the outset of planning and carried on throughout, is learning as much as possible about Uruguay. This can be done by reading, looking at pictures, seeing movies and talking to people who have been there. Travel guide books are helpful, one such being “New Horizons”, published by Pan American. Learning about Uruguay is the purpose of the study unit which is presented on these pages, and which may be the basis of an imaginary trip to the smallest of the South American countries, which is considered by many to be also one of the pleasantest. Later on, perhaps, it may be followed by a real trip to Uruguay.