BY FLYING CLIPPER TO
URUGUAY
Page 9
URUGUAY
SUGGESTIONS FOR A STUDY UNIT
by Eugenie G. Nadelman
I.	PROBLEM: Why does Uruguay occupy such an important position in the Western Hemisphere?
A. Reasons for Selection:
1.	This very small republic is called one of the most progressive. Let’s find out why.
2.	Uruguay is often referred to as a truly democratic country.
3.	How can a country so small in size become so important strategically?
4.	The increase in tourism brought about by the airplane.
5.	Each republic in Latin America becomes more interesting and important to us as we make a careful study of it.
6.	In order to bring about better understanding it is necessary that we become well acquainted with each of our Latin American neighbors.
7.	There is a natural curiosity and interest in the small countries and how they manage to keep up with the larger ones.
II.	PROBABLE DURATION: Two weeks.
III.	LAUNCHING THE UNIT:
A.	APPROACH:
1.	Use other South American countries already studied as a basis of comparison.
2.	A discussion of democracy in various parts of the world would include a study of the government of Uruguay.
3.	Visual aids recommended in this issue are always a good starting point.
4.	A study of the Organization of American States would point up Uruguay as a leading contributor.
5.	The early struggles between the Spanish and the Portuguese for control of this land make an interesting starting point.
6.	In a study of World War II the Graf Spee incident might arouse interest in finding out more about Uruguay.
7.	A report on any of the books or magazine articles listed in this issue might also be a starting point.
B.	SUBSIDIARY PROBLEMS:
1.	Why is Uruguay called one of the first welfare states?
2.	How does its system of government differ from that of many other democratic countries?
3.	How did Uruguay become one of the most progressive nations?
4.	What can we find out about its educational system?
5.	How is the airplane affecting tourism in Uruguay?
6.	What contributions has Uruguay made to the culture of the world?
IV.	EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
A. SUBJECT MATTER:
1. Social Studies:—importance of Montevideo, capital of Uruguay; Paysandu, Salto, Mercedes, Fray Bentos, San Jose, Canelones, other cities; the significance of the 18th of July and the number 33; important differences in form of government; federal Council of 9 members elected every 4 years, presidency rotated annually, woman suffrage, 2 house legislature; 700 mile ocean and river navigable coastline; the influence of Argentina and Brazil on the history of Uruguay; Charrua Indians; first permanent white settlement at Salvador; famous statesmen, de Solis, Artigas, Lavelleja, Ordinez, Gilbert, Varela, Ricciotti Garibaldi, Batlle, Mora; principal industry, livestock raising; wool and animal products; nutria best in world; wheat; University of Montevideo and educational system; standard of living among the best; 1/3 population centered in Montevideo; most people European descent; smallest republic in South America; Rio Negro, de la Plata, Uruguay; 3/4 area devoted to grazing; tanning industry; member United Nations and Organization of American States; wonderful beaches; practically an island.
2.	Language Arts:
a.	New words: — listed in this issue; also many familiar Spanish words.
b.	Literature: — famous author, Jose Enrique Rodo; poet, Juan Zorilla de San Martin; Carlos Reles, Hora-cio Quirogo; 2 women, Delmira Augustine and Juana de Ibar-bourou; books and articles listed in bibliography.
c.	Oral and Written communication: — write to National Tourist Commission and Federation Uruguay Tourists in Montevideo for more information; tell about the struggle for Uruguayan independence; discuss the difference in the setup of the government of the United States and that of Uruguay; plan a tour of Uruguay selecting the interesting places to stay; look up facts on the education and welfare laws of Uruguay; report these to the class; write about the “33 immortals”; discuss the contributions of some of the men listed under Social Studies; review some of the films listed in this issue.
3.	Art: — Museum of Fine Arts; Figari, Blanes and Antonio Frasconi, painters; military museum; beautiful buildings in Montevideo, comparison in old city, new city and newest city.
4.	Health: — high standards of living; lack of slums; welfare regulations for working hours, medical care, care of the aged; use of beaches; called one of South America’s favorite play-
Uruguayans take great pride in fine live stock, and well they may because seventy per cent of Uruguayan exports consist of animal products.