Pan American
Moa id Ainmrs Teacher	s
'<&| NASSAU
CAMAGÜE'
MARTINIQUE
MCURACAO
continental United States was still an Indian hunting ground. In fact, the Puerto Ricans’ ancestors were celebrating the twelfth anniversary of their settlement while the Pilgrims were still a hundred years away.
San Juan proper is located on an inlet on the northeastern coast. It is connected to the mainland by three bridges leading to Santurce. Traveling by air you will pass the forbidding white walls of Casa Blanca set high on a hill, the castle-like Fortaleza with its ever green gardens, and the pink, green, white, and yellow flat-roofed buildings.
Once in the city you are fascinated by the crowded thoroughfares which are enlivened by fascinating small shops, cafes, and street vendors. Ancient pastel-tinted houses with overhanging decorative balconies and grilled windows rub shoulders with modern office and bank buildings. Across the San Antonio Channel that connects the Atlantic with San Juan Bay, is Santurce, a residential section. Its fine homes are surrounded by palm trees, flowers, and tropical shrubs. Its hotels, clubs, and apartment houses are among the best in the Caribbean.
The Caribe Hilton Hotel dominates the San Juan water front. It is an incredible monument to pleasure, a magnificent specimen of architecture, and, most important, a lure to every one—including businessmen who once attracted, might be encouraged to bring their factories and knowledge as well,
OYER THE CARIBBEAN SEA
by Enrique Portes
Your trip to the West Indies can be an enchanting experience.
Spread out a map of the islands of the Caribbean, preferabfy one with airplane routes on it. (See page 4.) You can plan endlessly, and dream of the Spanish Main, of exotic tropical islands with little villages of blue, pink, and white native houses waiting just inside behind a mountain or across the calm waters of a bay. And best of all, such journeying through the West Indies will not take either time or money in such quantities as to be impossible for you.
Within a short period you can cover many islands some big, some tiny, some in the regular path and some perhaps remote, though not hard to reach. You can visit Jamaica; Haiti and the Dominican Republic which share the same Island of Hispaniola; Puerto Rico; the three American Virgin Islands—St. Thomas, St. Croix, St. John; St. Kitts; Antigua; Grand Cayman and the tiny Dutch islands of St. Maarten, St. Eustatius and Saba.
The islands stretch out in a giant arc from the tip of Florida down to the southern coast of South America, and while the distances within this arc are never great, no two islands are ever quite the same. The island populations are in some ways more like Europe than the United States in language, dress, food, home life and social and business habits. Even in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands—American as they are—you may have a feeling that you are in a foreign land.
Puerto Rico is a fascinating mixture of Latin American and Yankee America, of dreams and bustle, especially since it has become an aerial crossroads for West Indies and South American traffic. From Puerto Rico it is only a half hour by plane to St. Thomas in the American Virgin Islands, which is still another world with the Danish influence still strong after Denmark’s many years of ownership and occupation.
St. Croix and St. John, the other two American Virgin Islands, offer an even greater contrast than does St. Thomas. English is the official language of St. Croix, but the Danish street names have been kept. Haitians speak French and Creole, an island patois based on French and anything else that comes to mind, while their neighbors on the other end of the island speak Spanish. Netherlands-appointed officials supervise the schools and police forces of Saba, St. Maartin and St. Eustatius, while on Antigua the British serve tea promptly at 4 each afternoon.
Puerto Rico
To meet the Puerto Ricans you don’t have to go to the island whence they come. These fellow-Americans of ours can be found on our main-
land, especially in New York City. They are gentle, polite, industrious and ready to tell you everything they know about this island. And they do.
“Go to Puerto Rico,” they say. “There are things that have to be seen.”
You listen and some day make up your mind, take a plane and in less than six hours you find yourself in that tropical island, still remembering what you’ve been told and enjoying more the more you see. '
What sight greets you? Not the traditional picture of old1—a languid population strolling amid scenes replete with run-down cities, thatched huts and dirt roads. No, for Puerto Rico is an island imbued with the modern spirit. You feel it everywhere.
You see the soaring Banco Popular rising its towering stories of chrome and marble above San Juan’s skyline; the Customs Building dominating the harbor; the Capitolio, home of the legislature; La Fortaleza, headquarters of the Governor; great hotels, beach clubs, ball parks, race tracks, air fields, drug-stores, department stores, traffic lights, fire stations, policemen, hospitals, schools—the list is endless, and repeated everywhere.
You soon realize that Puerto Rico is as advanced as any of the States of the Union. Its Constitution, approved by the Constitutional Convention of Puerto Rico and by the U. S. Congress in 1952, is one of the most advanced instruments in modern times. It
establishes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico—the official Spanish name is Estado Libre Asociado de Puerto Rico—and it has its Bill of Rights which guarantees the rights of life, liberty and property and every other right provided by the U. S. Constitution. The legislature consists of two houses, the Senate and the House of Representatives, whose members are elected by direct vote at each general election. The executive power is vested in a Governor who is elected by direct vote at each general election. The judicial power is vested in a Supreme Court, and in such other courts as may be established by law.
Top officials make frequent visits to continental United States to talk with experts in various fields. As a result the latest equipment is sent to the island to build new industries and develop new techniques. Everything belonging to modern civilization can be found in Puerto Rico. The people attend concerts and movies, lectures and sporting events. Like continental Americans, they gather in homes and clubs and parks to discuss the political events of the day. Like us, they belong to the Boy Scouts, the Elks Club, the Knights of Columbus, the Masons, the Rotary, and the Lions. They support the Red Cross, and the Community Chest. They have labor unions, and societies for every worthy cause.
Puerto Ricans have their own traditions. The island was teeming with colonists when
YORK
BERMUDA
ST. THomAS
PORT X^^VsT CROD?*7# ANTIGUA au PRINCE lTRUJILLOf	K
\l / GmtDELOUPE#
MONTEGO BAY** KINGSTO
F SPAIN