Pah AsiFRiCAiv
12	World	Teacher
working conditions made in recent years. Stress cleanliness in the Dominican Republic. Native dances. Special games native to the islands.
5.	Music:
Native folk songs, calypso songs (try making up some of these), Haitian and African rhythms, Cuban dance bands, island carnivals.
6.	Art :
After children have heard the stories of festivals, special dances, calypso singing and have read about life on plantations and in the island cities and villages; and have seen movies and pictures, allow them to- illustrate and express themselves with paints and crayons.
7.	Mathematics :
Cost of various trips by boat and by plane, differences in time and distance, comparison of size of islands, population figures, denomination of money used, increase in number of factories, workers and output, trade figures. Make graphs of exports and imports, comparison of temperatures in islands of the West Indies and cities of the United States.
4.2	Skills:
Each unit developed should show an increase in ability to use a certain skill. This would be a good unit to develop the use of much skimming for varied details in many books. A contradiction of facts would probably arise so that the children might have practice in comparison, judgment, proving a point and critical thinking.
4.3	Attitudes, Interests and Understandings :
A realization that although these islands are not far from the United States life is very different. There is much of the old and some of the modern on each island.
A better knowledge of the strategic importance of these islands.
An idea of why they are growing more important.
An understanding of the way of life the inhabitants have been used to before they come to our shores.
S.	SUGGESTED EXPERIENCES:
1.	Set up a travel agency and plan trips. Some might actually be carried out during the Easter vacation.
2.	Write letters asking for travel folders and further information.
3.	Trace the routes of Columbus as he found each island. Trace the air routes of the present day.
4.	Make a set of slides or a movie showing some of the interesting places to see. Share these with other classes.
5.	Perhaps there is someone in the community who came from one of the islands and could give first hand in-
formation. In any case someone who has visited the islands will certainly be available.
6.	Book reviews.
7.	Listen to records of native music. Make up some calypso' songs. Try to beat out some of the native rhythms on home made instruments.
8.	Often some of the museums, or similar places in your community, program concerts of native island dances and music.
9.	Interesting reading and re-telling can be done on the early and exciting history of these islands.
10.	A collection of scenic postal cards can be made.
11.	Arrange an exhibit of mahogany bowls, carved heads, trays, sisal handbags and shoes, coconuts, sugar, tobacco, needlework, sponges, perfumes and other articles produced on the islands.
12.	Make a scrapbook of newspaper clippings and pictures of current happenings on the islands.
6.	CULMINATION:
Prepare an album containing pictures of your own community and activities in your school. Through the Junior Red Cross this may be forwarded to a school in Puerto Rico or another island of your choice. A return album will prove exceptionally interesting and can be shared by other classes of the school.
Prepare a travelogue for presentation in the auditorium. Use ready made or class made visual aids.
Any of the items suggested on #5 might be used as part of a culmination. As often as possible, share with other classes.
7.	MATERIALS OF INSTRUCTION :
1.	A good selection of books, magazines, and an encyclopedia.
2.	Travel folders.
3.	Audio and visual aids.
4.	Personnel.
5.	Maps, globes and realia.
8.	LEAD TO NEW UNITS :
Interest in this will lead to a study of other groups of islands to compare life, culture and progress.
You will enjoy reading about the Caribbean Islands if you know the meanings of these words:
aboriginal—native, primitive adaptability—made suitable, conform aggregating—collecting, bringing together aloes—bitter substance
amalgam—union of mercury with another metal
arc—curve or part of a circle archaic—belonging to a former period, out of use
aspects—peculiar features attributes—characteristics belonging to people
bustle—hurry, fuss
cavaliers—gallant men
ceramics—modeling and baking of clay
commentary—a series of explanations
commodity-—something bought and sold complex—combined, connected conglomeration—gathered into a mass contemplate—consider thoughtfully dividivi—small tropical American tree pods used for dyeing and tanning dominant—ruling, governing dwindled—made smaller enterprises—ventures, attempts eulogies—praises exotic—foreign fascination—attraction format—general style
foundries—where manufactured articles are cast from metal fusion—melting, blending hygienic—healthy hyperbolic—exaggeration idiom—use of words peculiar to a certain language
incidental—irregular, minor incredible—difficult to believe industrialization—building up with manufacturing
initiated—introduced insignificant—without importance integrated—made complete, brought parts together
intensive—greater emphasis intercepting—stopping, preventing languid—listless, lacking in movement lure—to attract by promise of pleasure mimosa—herb, shrub or tree of the bean family
mosaics—inlaid work, designs made of bits of stone, glass, enamel obituary—a published notice of death panorama—a constantly passing scene pantomimic—actions without words, gestures
patois—local dialect phenomenally—remarkably phosphatic—contain acids necessary to plant growth
prevalent—superior provincial—local
recurring—happening over and over again remote—far from location or from present time
replete—full
resins—substances coming from plants reverses—goes backwards satellite—smaller, dependent on larger scope—range, extent spacious—a good deal of room strategic—important, valued superior—finer, more excellent sustain—uphold, support synthetic—combination of many elements into one
tempestuous—stormy terrain—ground
thesis—an opinion expressed and defended tier—pile up in layers one above the other traditions—customs long continued unique—uncommon, only one of its kind unstable—not firm
verandas—open gallery along side of building
vested—given authority