Pan American
World	Airways Teacher
9
VIRGIN ISLANDS—The old sugar mill tower was built years ago by Danish settlers when the Virgin Islands were Danish territory. It is at Christiansted, St. Croix.
the industry has expanded phenomenally under the protection of the United States tariff.
In spite of serious reverses, tobacco continues to hold an important place in Puerto Rico’s economy. It represents practically the only source of cash income for farmers in the east-central mountain region where it is cultivated, mostly on small farms by about
22.000	growers. Cultivation of tobacco expanded rapidly up to the middle of the Twenties and continued at a high level for several years until market difficulties and related problems introduced a period of decline. The tobacco situation is being improved by the development of high yielding varieties, the introduction of types of tobacco other than cigar filler, and an increase in cigar manufacturing in the Island.
Once the leading commercial crop of Puerto Rico, coffee has long occupied a secondary position. Although it still ranks second to sugar cane in area of cultivation, the value of coffee exports has sunk to an insignificant figure. This damage has been done by the loss of European markets and recurring hurricanes.
Even though coffee exports have dwindled, the industry is still of great economic significance. The total population living in the coffee areas and dependent upon coffee and other related enterprises is great. Coffee farms are located in the central-western mountain region, where the shallow unproductive soils do not have a wide adaptability for other crops. In addition, the Government, realizing that the coffee growing areas are valuable for water and soil conservation, has been introducing better planting and cultivation programs and has introduced superior strains of coffee. More and more quick run-off hillsides once in sugar have been returned to coffee and fruits.
Puerto Rico grows a very wide variety of tropical fruits and vegetables, but few of them affect the Island’s economy except insofar as their incidental cultivation contributes to the local food supply. Of those which currently have some commercial value, pineapples and grapefruits lead the list.
Coconuts bring some income to the Island with coconut groves occupying about
10.000	acres, principally of sandy soil bordering the shores Pineapples, grapefruit and coconuts exported to the United States must compete against those of Cuba. Cucumbers, tomatoes and peppers are the principal vegetable crops exported from Puerto Rico. Again marketing difficulties and Cuban competition have hindered the development of the industry.
A high proportion of land is regularly devoted to food crops for local consumption but despite this fact, the Island imports a large percentage of its food. According to experts, the Island could not produce enough food to sustain itself even if every acre were given over to the cultivation of food crops.
Puerto Rico produces a high quality, long staple cotton known as Sea Island. A generally unstable market, however, has halted realization of the crop’s full potential value. It is estimated that as much as 20,000 acres along the northwestern and southwestern coasts could be used for cotton growing. Although Puerto Rico has considerable pasture land, low per capita purchasing
power greatly limits the consumption of milk and meat. With greater purchasing power, an increase in livestock feed production, and improvement in breeds, the livestock industry will become much more important.
Puerto Rico is not rich in natural resources. Minerals are scarce and generally of low grade. There are sands, limestone, gravels and clays of various kinds suitable for the manufacture of cement, glass, ceramics and building materials. There are some fish in nearby waters, but not enough to constitute a source of cheap food. The limited forest lands produce wood for charcoal and a very small amount of lumber. The fact that Puerto Rico’s primary resource has been its soil, has caused its industries to be largely concerned, in the past with the processing of agricultural products.
In industry, as in agriculture, sugar has been dominant since 1900. Sugar processing has been the principal industry. The second great industry has been the manufacture of rum from molasses, a by-product of sugar. Tobacco, coffee, coconuts and fruits and vegetables are other agricultural products which involve processing operations in the Island. Many tobacco stripping plants operate seasonally in the tobacco area. .Food canning and packing activities are increasing, and the introduction of the freezing method for preserving fruits and vegetables may lead to rapid expansion in this field. The Island has coconut shredding plants, and there is the possibility that this product may be used locally for making oils, soaps and candy.
Of the handicraft industries, needlework has occupied a place of importance, although this activity has been declining lately. Among the native handicraft products, one of the most characteristic is the string rug,
originally used only as a saddle blanket. Basketwork, hats, grass rugs, carved wood novelties, tortoise shell and coconut pins, buckles and buttons, and shell articles are also manufactured in the Island.
In the past private capital has not been invested in Puerto Rican industry to any extent except in the processing of sugar and the manufacture of rum. Realizing the imperative need for making the most of industrial possibilities as a means of improving the Island’s economy, the Commonwealth Government has encouraged the setting up of new industries.
Since 1941 Puerto Rico has added 132 new factories. Thirty-six more, ranging in area from 10,000 to 150,000 square feet, are on the construction program and fifteen are nearing completion. In recent months new ones have been projected at the rate of one a week. For example, three years ago the Island had no textile plants, now it has fourteen.
The new factories have created 12,000 jobs and businesses serving these plants have provided an equal number of jobs. In San Juan alone, the first six months of 1951 saw building permits aggregating $35,000,-000 against $21,000,000 for the entire island in 1950. Under a Housing Authority, thousands of low-cost residential units have been completed and thousands more are being completed. All these activities are helping Puerto Rico in its battle to raise the Island’s standard of living.
Cuba
Cuba, an hour by air from Miami, is a long, narrow island lying just within the tropics and just outside the limits of the Gulf of Mexico. Only 20 to 100 miles wide, its actual length is a little greater than the distance from New York to Chicago. Actually it has an area of about 44,000 square