Pan American
e	World Airways Teacher
PUERTO RICO—El Morro is a famous old fortress built by the Spaniards, now a leading tourist attraction at the city which is the “aerial crossroads” of the West Indies.
Rightly the Economic Development Administration states, “mañana means tomorrow . . . but it also means future. Puerto Rico has shed the ‘mañana’ complex... The island is doing today everything that is possible. .. and the impossible too.”
In spite of the metropolitan air, San Juan still retains the provincial charm of centuries ago. Vendors, carrying on their heads or in small carts everything—-from fruits, vegetables, eggs to chickens and ducks— musically proclaim the virtues of their merchandise; the ice-cream vendor plays a tune on a triangle, the scissors-grinder attracts attention with a whistle. Lottery-ticket sellers swarm the streets, each one assuring you that tickets—the ticket you buy —will be the winner.
Puerto Ricans love their island, and remember it wherever they go ; so will you. You will remember their easy gaiety, their laughter among friends, their music, the soft evening light on the murmuring sea, the warm water and the cool breeze.
On to the other islands
From Puerto Rico you can fly to St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands in about thirty minutes. St. Thomas still retains faint traces of its former Danish ownership. There are streets with names like Vimmelskaft Gade and Dronnings Gade.
Mixed in with the Danish undertone is the new atmosphere injected since 1917. So, shops are named The Peppermint Stick, The Donlc Shop, The Spanish Main and so on. You can buy low-cost Danish silver, Swedish glass, French gloves. The cognac is cheaper than in Paris, the best brand of Scotch is equally low priced.
Then you drive up over the hills, past orange trees, through a preserve of land-crab marshes, and emerge at last on a spotless beach fringed with sea-grape trees. Here you swim, far from it all, refreshing
yourself with the water of a green coconut sold on the beach for a dime.
Although the language o-f the Virgin Islands is English, it is surprising the amount of Spanish that finds its way over from Puerto Rico. A lot of people listen each afternoon to' the Spanish language broadcast of the baseball games from San Juan. “It is,” explains a friend of mine, “a manufactured! play-by-play of the U.S. big games received in San Juan by tape from New York and produced into what sounds like an eye-witness account rendered in an amalgam of Spanish and American baseball idiom.” When the teletype indicates a hit, the announcer strikes two pieces of wood together, shouts “Pow!” while the engineer brings up the recorded crowd noises.
St. Croix, forty miles from St. Thomas, is interested in sugar cane which might also interest you. Although the island’s name is French, the accepted pronunciation is “Saint Croy” (so I’ve been told). Those who come down from the U.S. are known as Continentals. Those of the island are Cruzans, the “i” having long ago been dropped when an artist making labels for Cruzian Rum left it out by mistake. The investment in the labels, according to an American traveler, was heavier than the Cruzans’ addiction to faultlessness. St. John is the other of the three American Virgin Islands, thirty or forty minutes from St. Thomas and quite interesting for those who wish to eat a turtle steak, lie in the sun, swim and contemplate the beauty of the Caribbean sea.
The island of Trinidad became famous with the beat of a calypso song. Port of Spain, the capital, is a handy sort of Hong Kong, for the population is a conglomeration of Chinese and Negro, East Indian and British, French and Portuguese. Black police in white helmets and blue short pants
keep the traffic moving past the Chinese merchants, past the coconut cart pulled by a donkey and operated by a lad whacking husks off with a machete. Trinidad can offer you at convenient prices French perfumes, Swiss watches, English tweeds and chinaware. Its Indian bazaars have fascinating collections of scarves from Benares, necklaces, bracelets, brassware, ivory figures, embroidered bags all imported from India. You won’t be surprised to read a sign with these words: “Shop here and save a trip to the Orient.”
Trinidad’s neighboring isle of Tobago is not far away. Tobago, sometimes called the Robinson Crusoe island, is twenty six miles long, seven miles wide, and is all but covered with vast palm forest. There are excursions also to Bird of Paradise Island on Little Tobago, the only sanctuary for the plurney birds this side of New Guinea. Well, if after enjoying so much you ever want to get to New York, it is twenty minutes back to Trinidad whence Pan American World Airways fly nonstop to Idlewild Airport in something like eight hours.
Two-thirds of the Hispaniola
The Dominican Republic occupies the eastern two-thirds of the Island of Hispaniola. Haiti occupies the other third. When the island was discovered in 1492, Columbus named it Española. The city of Santo Domingo, now Ciudad Trujillo, was the first permanent European settlement in the New World. Though it took Columbus months to find the Hispaniola, it is only a few air hours from New York. Your air trip to the Dominican Republic can be most interesting. From the-air you can see the two countries that share the island. You can see endless squared-off fields of sugar cane rolling smoothly between occasional, dotted slender palms, broad new roads intercepting the region, and little towns and villages scattered along the way. Your Flying Clipper will sweep over the towns of La Ramona and San Pedro Macoris, to arrive soon in the ancient capital of the Republic at the mouth of the Ozama River.
Then you drive into the gleaming city. It is a panorama of fascinating contrasts. Brand new sedans and Ford trucks rub elbows with donkey trains and push-carts ; splendid white buildings, hospitals, schools and government places are within a few minutes ride of palm thatched huts. At one end of George Washington Avenue, the palm-lined drive that skirts the Caribbean in the capital, the Plotel Jaraguas rises in tier after tier of deep balconies that have the mass effect of the new school of architecture. The verandas and outdoor terraces for recreation are spacious, the bed rooms the last word in comfort, and local foods and drinks are featured along with standard dishes. On the terrace of the Jaraguas you can sip a delightful punch, look across the rose umbrellas in the patio past the swimming pool, the lawn and the avenue of palms to the Caribbean and watch the blue waters of the sea—the Mediterranean of the Americas, i Cleanliness a reality	'
The Dominican Republic is a country where “cleanliness” is not an empty word. Cities and towns are spotless. Every day gangs of men are found sweeping, scrubbing, trimming and brushing everywhere. There is no dirt. The public market system is an