14
much more keenly than do the more primitive nations. It is not surprising, then, that a group of forward-looking educators have seised upon Aviation to symbolise the tempo of modern life. No other recent technological development in terms of its over-all impact can so well point up the dangers resulting from failure to make appropriate social application of and adjustments to the discoveries of science and the inventions that follow.
The Problem of Aviation Education
The problem of aviation education prior to 1942 was defined generally in terms of aeronautical skills. However, the booklet Air Conditioning Young America prepared jointly by the U. S. Office of Education and the Civil Aeronautics Administration regarded the problem as two-fold, incorporating both skills in aviation per se and understandings of aviation’s uses.
A Current Definition of the Aviation-Education Problem
At present the concept of the problem of aviation education can scarcely be distinguished from that of education in an aviation-age, excepting that it regards aviation as foremost among those influences which affect contemporary life. The problem of aviation education now is defined in terms of preparing an individual citizen to successfully cope with the circumstances of the aviation-age.
An Energetic Leadership Imperative
It has been said that a half century must elapse before a new idea in formalized education “catches on.” This statement is perhaps true when a new idea is left to depend upon the vagaries of chance. Let us in the instance of aviation education place trust in the efforts of inspired leadership. For if we wait half a century to' employ a solution to the problem of education in an aviation-age, human life as we know it on this planet might well disappear. The alternative is a determined effort to overcome educational apathy and quiescence. Such effort to be effective must stem from one source only: educational supervision and administration. In-service teacher guidance by aviation-education counsellors must spark this effort.
The Method of Aviation Education
An educational program designed to induct youth into the realities of life must emplo3r whenever possible the direct-experience technique. This requires the educational use of whatever community resources and facilities can be made available. This, in turn, depends upon a harmony of understanding between school and community to a higher degree than that which generally prevails. These facts have serious implications for the schools’ public relations program. They also call for sensible modification of any traditional educational program enabling consideration of appropriate current events.
II.
SOCIOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE AVIATION AGE
Broader Concept of Democracy Throughout the World
The very fact that aviation has drawn world centers closer together in travel time has many sociological implications. It has increased opportunity for intermingling of
Pan American
Would Airways Teacher
ideas. As a result of our closer association with other peoples American democratic concepts are receiving consideration by them. International organizations and world travel are fostering better understandings. Educational travel by air provides new opportunity for people of other lands to view Americans in their true perspective.
Shrinking World Concept
The aviation age has truly been a predominant force in the removal of geographical barriers. One has only to recall the numerous achievements of the airplane in the last world war. Thousands of troops were moved by air in a very short period of time. Airplanes regularly flew all manner of equipment and supplies into1 hitherto inaccessible terrain. The more recent Berlin airlift was certainly an outstanding example of the effectiveness of the airplane in bridging geographical barriers in a difficult political situation.
One has only to visit a port of entry for aircraft to appreciate the significance it plays in eliminating geographic barriers. The trend toward measuring distance in terms of air travel time has also caused an increased intermingling of nations through their representative people.
Commodities not previously available are now shipped in by fast air express. The aviation age makes readily accessible the produce of other lands. In addition the airplane has brought about a situation of close human relations. For example, Latin Americans as a matter of course now fly into major United States shopping centers. Thousands of U. S. citizens spend flying vacations at the resorts of South America, Mexico and Europe. This intermingling of people can be used as a positive force in creating a better world understanding and cooperation. On the other hand, close human relationships do not necessarily mean better understanding and cooperation. The aviation age brings with it a responsibility to the people of the United States to present their culture in its most desirable aspects if we are to continue to maintain leadership in spreading democratic ideas and concepts.
Additional and New Vocations
In the past fifty years our society has experienced a tremendous change in the nature of its transportation. The aviation age has added many new words and concepts to our vocabulary. Beginning with the simplest term and the most logical one pilot on into the technical aspects of aircraft operation with such terms as radar-technician, one realizes the tremendous scope of the new vocational possibilities created.
To further appreciate the many new vocations created by the air age, one should visit the centers of aircraft production and talk with the people involved. He will immediately become acquainted with such people as the aircraft-loftsman, the project-engineer, the electronics-engineer, the air-frame assembler, the armament-technician and’ many others which strictly characterize the aviation-age. In addition, the many related occupations which have grown out of the development of the aviation-age are truly significant. In this short span of fifty years, these vocations and many others have completely changed the character of numerous outstanding communities and are truly a
significant characteristic of the aviation-age.
Better Ways of Doing Traditional Jobs
Many people unfamiliar with the many characteristics of the aviation-age often overlook the impact of the airplane in the area of general aviation. Today many jobs essential to the nation’s economy are being done far faster and more effectively with the airplane. Crop dusting, one of the oldest applications of the airplane, is one of these jobs. It is significant that in many areas of the South, it would be virtually impossible to control insects in the cotton producing season were it not for the airplane. Pilots and farmers think in terms of the number of acres per hour which can be dusted, rather than the traditional concept of acres per day. In addition to the dusting of crops, certain types of seeding are now done from the air. The obvious advantage of reseeding large forest areas by air are immediately apparent. Many state and national agencies devote considerable time and effort to conserving our natural resources effectively by air. Areas are now seeded from the air in less than one fiftieth of the time required to seed them from the ground. This is obviously a significant characteristic of the aviation-age and one of which we should be justly proud.
As it becomes necessary for this highly industrialized society of ours to more adequately use our natural resources, the air geographical survey is becoming more and more important. Vast areas hitherto inaccessible for practical survey purposes are now given close attention in aerial surveys. Such resources as uranium and other minerals are located by the versatile airplane. In addition the airplane is gaining increased acceptance as a tool of industry. The executive type transport has been accepted by large industries for a number of years. Transportation by air means that an executive can spread his efforts on a personal basis over a much wider area than he could by surface travel. At the same time key personnel are often moved from one industrial site to another and in many cases have saved industrial corporations millions of dollars through this rapid mode of transportation.
We all remember tales of the fence rider of the old western days. The modern counterpart of this rugged individual uses the small light airplane, flying many hundreds of thousands of miles maintaining a close watch on power transmission lines, oil pipes lines and many other scattered industrial installations. The agriculture counterpart of this industrial use of the airplane enables many farmers and ranchers to reach distant points of farm and ranch holdings locating cattle in places inaccessible by surface travel, and in many cases heading these cattle at the direction of the air pilot.
The airplane has SO' many new applications during everyday living that it would be difficult to describe them all here. New applications are being developed daily and may be described as characteristics of our aviation-age.
Noise of Low-Flying' Aircraft
The noises associated with aviation are one of the characteristics the uninitiated will immediately recall. Airplanes have always been noisy and probably will not immediately overcome this characteristic.