However, numerous scientific studies are currently under way to determine more effective methods of noise control in aircraft. The general public is accepting the sound of aircraft engines and propellers as an everyday occurrence. Thirty years ago the sound of an aircraft sent everyone out into the open to try to see this thing that fiies. Today the sound of the aircraft engine overhead causes very few people to turn and look. One should recall that with the advent of the automobile, Americans were terrified by its associated noises. Many old timers and die-hards were certain that the automobile was a fad—one which would quickly pass into oblivion. Time has proven this concept and characteristic of the automobile age to be false. Time is also1 conditioning the public to accepting a measure of noise associated with air transportation just as it is commonly accepted with automotive and rail transportation.
It is significant that the aircraft industry and the federal agencies responsible for the development of aviation are tackling the problem of noise, ordinarily associated with airport areas, in a very scientific manner. The recent report of the President’s Airport Commission, “The Airport and Its Neighbors,” 2 points the way toward more effective planning of facilities to handle the increasing volume of air traffic. The public can look to more effective control of noises in the future development of airplanes.
Fear of Low-Flying Aircraft
It is rather significant that the average motorist thinks nothing of meeting an oncoming car at a converging speed of 140 miles per hour with a minimum distance separating the two vehicles of less than two feet. It is natural, however, that the same individual who accepts the hazards of highway travel would cringe to an airplane flying over him six feet or sixty feet away at a speed of 140 miles per hour. This basic fear probably comes from a lack of understanding of the nature of flying as well as the knowledge that air highways have wider boundaries than do surface highways. This characteristic of the aviation-age, fear of low-flying aircraft, is one that educators should recognize and attempt to explain.
New Emphasis on Safety
It is significant that scheduled air carriers travel over 100,000,000 passenger miles per fatality. At the same time this improvement did not come about by just haphazard guess work. A large part of the total expenditure of the air carriers is devoted to safer operation of the airplane. This characteristic is a heavily increasing responsibility of the air carriers—one which increases with speed and other factors. It is significant that aviation is providing more thought, study, time and financial effort to making air travel safer than any other mode of transportation. This characteristic of the aviation-age is one the public can and does appreciate while at the same time it points to the responsibility of educators to better define and present to the attention of the public the facilities that are provided for their safety.
The World’s Problems Have Become Our Own
The tendency toward thinking of distance in terms of time by air travel has reduced
2 Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing
Office, Washington, D. C.
PAtV Aifffi/CA/V
World Alrmvs Teacher
our geographic barriers and added a. tremendous impact upon our thinking and philosophy with respect to world problems. It is no longer possible to isolate ourselves by the seas and the poles and let the rest of the world solve its own problems. With New York City only 16 hours from Moscow and San Francisco only 18 hours from Tokyo, we must now assume the responsibility for maintaining a position of understanding and cooperation with all the peoples of the world. This is a rather significant attribute of the age alone—one which teachers and the public in general should know and understand if we are to continue our position of world leadership.
III.
TECHNOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE AVIATION-AGE
Speed
When one thinks of aviation he immediately thinks of some aspect of speed. To one, speed may mean a rapid mode of transportation ; to another, speed is the fulfillment of a desire to control a swiftly moving machine. Still others view speed and aviation in their broader implications as reflected in the numerous applications to our everyday living. A newer concept of speed and its relationship with aviation has come about through the tremendous saving of time involved in traveling. It is rather significant that the travel time by air between Dallas, Texas, and Washington, D. C, a distance of approximately 1000 miles, is less than the time involved in conventional surface travel between Dallas, Texas and Austin, Texas, a distance of approximately 200 miles. People accustomed to air travel begin to think in terms of time instead of distance. This is a rather significant attribute of the aviation age and one which becomes more significant as speeds increase. In any interpretation, speed has a special and unique appeal, particularly to children. The problem of educational leadership is to point the way to the more effective use of speed and all its implications to teachers and others charged with the responsibility of guiding youth.
Costly Plant and Equipment
Awe and amazement are the reactions of one who- views aviation installations and equipment for the first time. Only then does such an individual begin to develop a healthy respect for aviation and all that its leaders have done to make it a safe and highly functional instrument of man. The implied meaning of these facts are numerous-— among them are the following:
1.	Schools should use the aviation facilities to broaden the understanding of youth.
2.	The aviation people cannot take the initiative in accomplishing such use.
3.	It is the responsibility of established educational leadership to point the way to the effective use of aviation plant and equipment.
4.	Continuous techniques should be used by leadership to insure incorporating aviation content into the modern curriculum. “Spot” programs are inadequate in meeting growing educational needs.
15
Intricate and Highly Specialized Fabrication
Bundles of electronic wires as large as the arm, millions of rivets in one aircraft structure, vertical stabilizers as high as a five story building, specialized and highly technical skilled maintenance occupations, are but a few of the characteristics of the aviation age that have tremendous educational implications. People are fascinated by the many intricacies of the aircraft-— characteristics of aviation alone that have largely been ignored in preparing people to live in the world about them. One views these accepted intricacies with some misgivings, since they were not included in his own educational background. With a firm resolve to remedy this situation, educational leadership should look to immediate remedial programs as well as long range educational planning.
Highly Technical Instruments and Operations
The “pips” on a radar screen; the “zeroed” weather visible to the controller in the tower; the roar of engines through the fog; the voice communications to the approaching airliner pilot; the first sign of the aircra.ft as it breaks through an extremely low ceiling directly in line with the runway for a perfect landing. Observing these, the uninitiated immediately experience a feeling of satisfaction in jobs well done and of respect for those who conceive, design, construct, install, maintain and operate such highly technical facilities.
IV.
THE IMPORTANCE OF THE AVIATION EDUCATION MOVEMENT TO BOTH SCHOOL AND PUBLIC
Obviously, since the American school is an institution established by our democratic society for the purpose of giving appropriate guidance to our future citizens, whatever is important to the school is important to its public. Also, by the same token, whatever is important to- its public is important to the school. Educational leaders have long been sensitive to the problem posed by the cultural lag. According to some writers the nationwide average of this gap between the knowledge—scientific, technological, or other—residing in our leaders and the ability of the rest of us to make appropriate application of this knowledge is about fifty years. That is to say, educationally we are just catching up with our grandparents. It is the function of the school to narrow as much as possible the gap between the realities of the contemporary world and comprehension, on the part of both youth and adult, of the meaning of these realities. In the aviation-age when technological achievement crowds upon technological achievement, and the tempo of life has correspondingly accelerated, the tendency is for the cultural gap to widen. The one way to prevent such an occurrence is to gear the school’s general education program closely to the contemporary. Hence, the importance of the aviation education movement which does just that.
The Aircraft Challenges Interest It is an educational truism that a child is chiefly interested in those phenomena he observes in his surroundings. A well-established educational principle states that inter-