8
Pan American
World A/rravs Teacher
INDUSTRY AND TRADE
By Lou A. Phillips
traffic. But there is something very enchanting about this music, something that you, too, will enjoy.
As a summary—a few words about the Caribbean islands. Haiti is a colorful little country with its Voodoo drums, its fascinating capital and its twin wonders, La Citadelle and Sans Souci Palace. The crowded streets of Port-au-Prince are always interesting—negro women carrying baskets on their heads, and in contrast, modern automobiles, smart shops and excellent hotels. Flowers bloom everywhere in profusion, mimosa grows among the pines. The language is French, the currency is the gourd, the atmosphere is exciting.
Jamaica is British, rich in bananas and bauxite. It is a famous resort. Kingston is colorful with fine shops, wonderful drives and good hotels. Montego Bay is a celebrated resort for its hotels, its white coral beaches and many other things that give glamour and luxury to your vacation.
And along your path you come to know one after another that long string of little islands each with a past, a present and a future—St. Thomas, St. Croix, St. John, Saba, Antigua, Guadaloupe, Dominica, Martinique, St. Lucia, Barbados, Grenada, Trinidad, Tobago. All these islands are in the Caribbean sea, the sea of the pirate Drake, or if you prefer, the Admiral Sir Francis Drake. More than three hundred years have passed since he was around, yet the ghost of this pirate still wanders uneasily about the Caribbean. In Venezuela, German Arciniegas’ Caribbean, Sea of the New World, 'will tell you, when children are naughty they are told, “If you don’t behave, the Englishman will come, Drake will come and eat you.” Terrified, the children answer, “Mamma, I’ll be good, I promise, but don’t call the Englishman.”
For a strange and exciting prescription guaranteed to relieve the routine of any life —take six and one-half hours of flying time from New York or five hours from Miami, a dash of Old Spain, one part of the fascination of Paris, a smattering of picturesque Holland, a dash of the mysteries of Africa, and a good portion of some of the most familiar aspects of United States life. Mix well and season with the flavor of the Tropics. By following these directions Clipper passengers find themselves at the gateway to an area full of surprises and contrasts— the Caribbean Islands of Puerto Rico, Cuba, Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Guadaloupe and Martinique, and Curacao.
However, the natural attractiveness of this area for United States travelers represents only one of the ties between the region and the United States. The people of Puerto Rico, over two million strong, are citizens of this country and there are no bars to the free movement of people, goods or money between the Commonwealth and continental United States.
In addition, the economies of many of the Caribbean Republics are closely integrated in varying degrees with that of the United States. Of equal, if not greater importance, is the strategic location of all Caribbean Islands to the Panama Canal and the approaches to continental United States. Each Island is important to us in its own right and to understand them is to- know how they live, what their problems are, and the solutions at which they are aiming.
Puerto Rico
Clipper passengers landing in Puerto Rico deplane at the Island’s modern Isla Grande
Airport. This terminal represents the Commonwealth’s desire to make Puerto Rico in general, and San Juan in particular, the air hub of the Caribbean. San Juan, the Island’s capital, is also the business, banking and shipping center of Puerto Rico.
The two other towns of major importance are Ponce and Mayaguez. Ponce is the home of the first privately owned cement plant in the Island, has several foundries, and is a coffee and sugar center. Mayaguez is the scene of one of the two campuses of the University of Puerto Rico. Other University activities are carried on in Rio Piedras near San Juan. Although adapted to the particular needs of Puerto Rico, both campuses are modeled after those in the United States.
The aims of the people of Puerto Rico are simple. They want their Island to be able to support itself and to better their own standard of living. The solution is not as simple. Until recently the Island’s economy was almost entirely dependent on agriculture, but due to an ever growing population, agriculture alone has not proved sufficient. Therefore the Commonwealth Government has initiated a program designed to promote industrialization. Special tax exemption benefits are being offered to manufacturers in addition to the natural advantages which the Island offers in labor conditions, climate, raw materials, distribution and in the attitude of the whole community which is extremely conscious of its needs of new and additional industrial operations.
Approximately rectangular in shape, Puerto Rico is about 100 miles long by 35 miles wide. It is bounded on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, on the south by the Caribbean Sea and on the west by the Mona Passage, which separates the Island from the Dominican Republic.
Actually, Puerto Rico is a mountain crest, volcanic in origin. The Atlantic Ocean reaches its greatest depth, 27,922 feet, about 45 miles north of the Island. The submerged mountain chain of which Puerto Rico is a part, would be the highest in the world, if it were above rather than below sea level. Including three small satellite islands, the territory of Puerto Rico contains 3,425 square miles, almost three-fourths of which lie in the mountainous interior. The mountains slope down to a flat coastal plain which varies from eight to 13 miles in width in the north, and from two to eight miles in the south.
Although land resources of the Island are not great, agriculture is the most important source of income and employment. Less than half of the acres in farmland are well adapted to permanent agricultural use and even three-fourths of this land requires complex or intensive soil conservation practices. Chemical fertilizer is used generally in the growing of sugar cane, tobacco and other field crops. Sugar cane production is the foundation on which Puerto Rico’s economic structure is based. It is not only the principal crop but also furnishes raw material in the form of molasses, for the Island’s profitable rum industry. Sugar is also the most important single source of employment, and
MARTINIQUE—Some of the local girls pose for the photographer in their colorful native costumes, Martinique is one of the Windward Islands.