10
Pa tv Am ear can
Would Airways Teacher
miles, no greater than the state of Pennsylvania. The eastern part of Cuba is mountainous and contains one peak more than 8,000 feet high. In the center of the island the land is in high sloping plains. The rocky coasts on both the north and south are broken by many natural harbors, but approaches are often made difficult by small islands and coral reefs.
Cuban soil is easy to cultivate, with sandy soil prevalent in the north. Forests, which are chiefly in the eastern part of the island cover about half of Cuba. Hard woods of many varieties, most of them unknown farther north, dyewoods, fibers, resins, and oils are some of the forest products. Cuba exports much iron ore to the United States. Copper, oil, manganese, salt and asphalt are among its other mineral resources.
Most of the production of Cuba each year consists of products of the soil. There are two great crops—sugar cane and tobacco. In the output of sugar the Island is the second largest producer in the world, and the quality of Cuban cigars has made its tobacco world famous. Cuba has been producing sugar for four centuries. Modern canecrushing mills, which involve an investment of several hundred thousand dollars each, are a necessity in order that most of the sugar contained in the cane may be recovered. On this account sugar production has become a large-scale industry. The “sugar central”, as the mill is called, is the center of the sugar plantation, which often covers thousands of acres and employs many thousand workers. Besides, the cane from the plantation proper, much cane is also brought in by small growers and contractors.
The finest tobacco in the world comes from western Cuba. It grows in a light and rather sandy soil, and the greatest care is taken in raising the better grades. The best tobacco goes into cigar wrappers. Tobacco is exported as leaf tobacco, cigars and cigarettes.
Although sugar cane and tobacco are the chief agricultural products, Cuba has a wide range of other crops. Other important agricultural products now include coffee, pineapples, bananas, citrus fruit, coconuts, tomatoes, onions, potatoes, cacao1 and! rice. Much of the land is excellent for grazing, and conditions are ideal for cattle raising. The stock-raising industry is steadily increasing with government encouragement. There are good forest foods for hogs, which can be raised at low cost.
The manufacture of tobacco and sugar products accounts for the most important Cuban manufactures. However, great strides are now being made in other fields including sponges, mosaics, textiles, perfumes, canning, clothing and cement. Cuba is essentially a trading nation, exporting much of what it produces and importing much of what it consumes. On a per capita basis, it carries on more trade with the United States than any other Caribbean Republic. Chief exports are sugar, tobacco products, molasses, pineapples, bananas, hides, rum and iron ore. Imports include foodstuffs, textiles, machinery, metals, chemicals and drugs.
While Havana, the capital and principal center of business, has many examples of the best in modern architecture, it has also
VIRGIN ISLANDS—The ancient guns are scene is Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas.
the charm of Spanish colonial times in its old forts, ancient churches and lovely plazas.
It has splendid boulevards, gardens, parks and magnificent modern buildings as well.
The city is well known for its night-life and sidewalk cafes where orchestras play popular Cuban and American music. Other well known cities of the Island include Pinar del Rio on the west coast with its beautiful green valley, flowery cliffs and limestone crags; the hillside city of Matanzas to the east with its tile-trimmed houses and wrought iron grille windows; Santa Clara, shopping center for the fifty sugar plantations near by; Camaguey with its medieval buildings and Santiago de Cuba, the second oldest city in the Island.
Dominican Republic and Haiti
The island shared by the independent Republic of Haiti and the Dominican Republic has a total area of 30,401 square miles. Haiti means “mountainous” in the aboriginal tongue and describes the general character of the island, although extensive plains stretch between the forest clad mountains.
The Dominican Republic forms the eastern two-thirds of the island and the Republic of Haiti occupies the western third. Haiti is about equal in size to the state of Vermont.
Despite the rugged terrain of the Dominican Republic, agriculture is the dominant industry and great quantities of tobacco, sugar cane, cacao and coffee are raised. The land is well forested with valuable timber including mahogany, logwood, cedar and satin-wood. Although important deposits of coal, iron, copper and gold are known to exist they are not developed as yet. Little manufacturing activity is carried on. The majority of the nation’s agricultural exports are destined for the United States which is also
retained many of the aspects and much ofAtiui^s^the country’s leading supplier.
at Fort Christian, and the background
Ciudad Trujillo is the Republic’s capital and chief port. It is also the country’s social and cultural center. The city has several fine buildings of the Spanish colonial era including a Cathedral containing the body of Christopher Columbus, the first stone-built church in the Americas and many fine avenues and parks. The people are of Spanish and Negro extraction.
The people of Haiti are of French and Negro extraction. French is the official language, but the common speech of all classes is a Creole patois. The capital and chief port, Port au Prince is constantly cooled by a breeze. Although Haiti is the most mountainous country in the Caribbean, it is protected by nature against hurricanes.
The country has a varied climate. The lowlands along the coast are very hot in summer but the climate in the high regions is spring-like. The soil is fertile and the country is chiefly agricultural. Coffee and sugar cane are the most important crops with much of the sugar cane being manufactured into molasses and rum. Other products are cotton, cacao beans and tropical fruits. The nation’s extensive forests supply mahogony, logwood and cabinet woods. Little mining is carried on although there are deposits of gold, silver, iron, tin, copper and nickel.
The island occupied by the Dominican Republic and Haiti was discovered by Columbus in 1492. The first permanent Spanish settlement was established in 1496. However, during the 17th century, English and French traders used the island’s harbors and a European treaty signed in 1697 gave the western portion of the island to France in view of the French settlements there. Haiti declared itself an independent state in 1804