Pæ/V A/UERÎCAIV
2	World Airways Teacher
Pah AmerrcA h World Airways Teacher
Published as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1 953, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
(Continued from page 1)
World Airways Teacher for a report on some of the 1952 NEA tours.)
On most of these tours arrangements may be made to work for academic credit.
For a folder describing all the NEA offerings write to: Division of Travel Service, National Education Association of the United States, 1201 16th St., N. W., Washington 6, D. C.
Summer Center in Mexico
The University of Houston International Study Centers has announced that it will again offer a summer center in Mexico, with classes at the University of Mexico, visits and field trips to places of interest in Mexico City, and week end excursions to such places as the Floating Gardens (Xochimil-co) ; Pyramids of the Gods (Teotihuacan) ; Cuernavaca and Taxco; Cholula and Puebla and an optional 3-4 day trip into the interior of Mexico.
Transportation from Plouston to Mexico City and return will be via Pan American World Airways. The all-expense cost of $375 will include university fees and tuition for 6 hours credit; air transportation, all costs of field trips and scheduled week end excursions and hotel in Mexico City.
Courses of study offered include conversational Spanish for both beginners and intermediate students, also courses in contemporary problems in politics, agriculture, industry, etc., as well as instruction in Mexican folklore.
For full information, write to Dr. Joseph S. Werlin, University of Houston International Study Centers, Cullen Boulevard, Houston 4, Texas.
Sorbonne American Institute and Richelieu Institute
Dr. Michael Qtero advises that these two institutes for study in France, both of which he heads, will offer programs similar to those in past years.
The summer session at the University of Paris, the Sorbonne, conducted by the Sorbonne American Institute, will have two plans. Those who wish to remain for the six weeks term in Paris may do so. The second plan offers three weeks in Paris at the Sorbonne and then, by special arrangement with the University of Paris faculty, three weeks at Nice on the French Riviera.
The Richelieu Institute in 1953 will offer for the second time a special course in fashion designing at Guerre-Lavigne. Rich-ielieu offers also a course in French Cuisine to be held at Cordon Bleu.
Approximate package rates for any of these courses will be $747, including round trip transportation via Pan American World Airways Tourist Service, tuition and registration fees, room and breakfast. (The optional trip to the Riviera will involve extra charges.)
For additional information, address the Sorbonne American Institute, or the Richelieu Institute. Both addresses are Box 1405, Beverly Hills, California.
Guild of Student Travel
This division of Transmarine Tours, Inc. offers a series of summer tours of Europe under the general supervision of Dr. Benjamin Van Riper, veteran educational tour conductor and director who now is Executive Secretary of the Guild of Student Travel.
Each group will proceed under the leadership of a qualified tour director who is either a college professor or is otherwise qualified to contribute educational values. Some of the tours include attendance at coronation festivities.
In each case there is an option of traveling across the Atlantic in either or both directions by air or by surface, and of selecting Air Tourist Service, Surface Cabin Class or Surface Tourist Class. Package prices range from $1,095 to $1,477.
Write to Dr. Benjamin Van Riper, Executive Secretary, Guild of Student Travel, Transmarine Tours, Inc., 500 Fifth Ave., New York 36, N. Y.
Student Travel Overseas Programs
S.T.O.P. Tours is the student division of Travel Service, Inc., Berkeley, Calif. S.T. O.P.’s program for the summer of 1953 includes air tours to Europe, South America, Hawaii, and Mexico'.
The European program includes a series of budget tours “particularly designed for students and younger’’ teachers with transportation to Europe via PAA or by surface, and with automobile and air travel in Europe.
The South America trip is via the S.S. Brazil of the Moore-McCormack Line from New York to Buenos Aires returning via Pan American Grace Airways up the west coast of South America. It will be led by Professor Alfred Fisk of San Francisco State College, and will entail six units of college credit.
For the Hawaii program, only college girls up to age 25 are eligible, and it will include attendance at the University of Hawaii. Transportation is via Pan American World Airways Tourist Service, with the option of returning on the Lurline. College credit may be earned at the University of Hawaii.
“Operation Amigos” is the name of the tour to Mexico City, which includes attendance at the summer session of the National University of Mexico. It will be the thirty-second annual summer session of the National University of Mexico—the fifth year of this particular “Operation Amigos.” College credit may be earned. S.T.O.P. also offers an Easter tour by air to Mexico.
For additional information on S.T.O.P. offerings, write to Student Travel Overseas Program, Travel Service, Inc., Berkeley, California, or consult your own travel agent.
PANAGRA IS AWARDED
ANNUAL FRYE TROPHY
Miami to Buenos Aires Scheduled Flight Fastest Operated by U. S. Lines
NEW YORK, N. Y., Dec. 11—Panagra (Pan American-Grace Airways) today was awarded the Frye Trophy for operating the fastest U. S. commercial passenger flight on a regularly scheduled service.
Established to foster the supremacy of U. S.-built passenger transport aircraft and to encourage faster and more efficient service, the first award of the Frye Trophy went to Panagra’s El Inter Americano Fiesta Lounge flight between Miami, Florida, and Buenos Aires, Argentina.
This Douglas DC-6 luxury plane, which gets its name from the lounge located amidships, maintains a regular flight schedule of 16 hours and 16 minutes flying time for its two-stop schedule over a 4,587 mile route. On this schedule Panagra operates Douglas DC-6 airliners, equipped with Pratt & Whitney CB-16 engines which provide a cruising speed of approximately 325 miles per hour at an altitude of 20,000 feet. It is a piston-engined aircraft.
The annual Frye Trophy was placed in competition here today at a luncheon in the “21” Club which was attended by pioneers of American commercial transport aviation, businessmen and industrialists.
The trophy was presented by Jack Frye, a pioneer in commercial transport aviation and donor of the trophy, to Douglas Campbell, vice president and general manager of Panagra.
In making the presentation, Frye, president and chairman of the board of General Aniline & Film Corporation, who has set several coast-to-coast records, said: “This award will be given annually to- encourage and recognize the advancement and continuous development and production of faster and more efficient commercial transport passenger aircraft, thereby lessening distance and lengthening time to develop world-wide communication and understanding.”
In accepting the award, Campbell gave credit for it to his company’s employees “down the line”, and particularly to its maintenance and operations personnel.
Determination of the winner of the 1952 award was made by a committee headed by Alexander de Seversky, C. S. (Casey) Jones and John B. Walker, which made an analysis based on recognized certifications by the published 1952 flight schedules of U. S. airlines. This was confirmed by the National Aeronautic Association by request of the Committee.
HONOLULU TOURIST SERVICE
Pan American World Airways has inaugurated low-fare tourist-class air service to Honolulu from San Francisco and Los Angeles.
The tourist-class fare is $125 one-way and $225 round-trip. This is a reduction of $43 one-way and $78 on a round-trip from the first-class fare of $168 one-way and $303 round trip. Honolulu fares are subject to the 15 per cent Federal transportation tax.
This is first tourist-class service on a Pacific air route. The company has already pioneered the low-fare service across the Atlantic and throughout Latin America.