)^5Ul .Acci
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Pah Amerlca/v World Alrways Teacher
February, 1953
Published by Pan American World Airways
VOL. IX No. 2
COMET III—This is a preliminary model of Pan American World Airways’ version of the de Havilland Comet III jet airliner, powered by four Rolls Royce Avon R.A. 16 axial-flow turbojet engines. Its cabin can be arranged for 58 passengers of a first class basis, or for 78 passengers in Tourist Service.
NOTES ON EDUCATIONAL TRAVEL
By George Gardner
PAA PLACES ORDER FOR JET AIRLINERS
Three Comet Ill-type Jet Transports to be delivered by de Havilland in 1956
Jet-type air transport airplanes have been ordered by Pan American World Airways for operation on PAA’s long international routes.
Three Comet Ill-type jet transports are to be supplied to the air line in 1956 by the de Havilland Company of England, and there is an option to purchase seven additional aircraft of the same type. Also PAA is negotiating with U.S. manufacturers for jet tj'pes.
The new Comet III jet transports will be about half again as large as the Comet types now in operation between England and South Africa, and between England and the Far East. They will fly 500 miles per hour, and will be capable of carrying 58 passengers first class, or 78 passengers tourist class, plus mail and express, over a range of 2700 miles.
Jet airplanes offer an opportunity for a great increase in airplane speed, as has already been demonstrated by military types, and by the few transport jets already put into operation as commercial air transports. In addition, the mechanism of the jet engine is simpler than that of the piston type engine, a lower grade, less expensive, type of fuel (similar to kerosene) being used. Specifications for the Comet III follow:
PAN AMERICAN JET CLIPPER COMET III TYPE
TYPE: High-performance, long-range, low-wing turbojet commercial transport, manufactured by the de Havilland Aircraft Company, Ltd., Hertsford-shire, England.
ENGINES: 4 Rolls Royce Avon R.A. 16 axial-flow turbojet engines, each capable of developing 9,000 pounds of thrust. WING SPREAD: 115 feet.
LENGTH: 111 feet.
GROSS WEIGHT : 145,000 pounds. PAYLOAD: 17,500 pounds.
FUEL CAPACITY: 9,700 U.S. gallons. FUEL: Turbine engine fuel, essentially similar to kerosene.
CRUISING SPEED: 500 mph.
RANGE (WITH FULL PAYLOAD) : 2,700 statute miles.
OPERATING ALTITUDE: Up to 45,000 feet.
PASSENGER CAPACITY:
First class: 58 Tourist: 78
Passenger service installations include fully-equipped galley-kitchen, coat compartment and three lavatory-washrooms.
A trend towards group educational travel at the holiday season may be seen in the movement of 51 students from the New Jersey State Teachers College at Montclair, New Jersey, to Puerto Rico, during the past Christmas vacation'.
This project was a college course for credit-—or more accurately—a college field trip for credit. It was announced in the catalog as “Social Studies 466,” and described as follows:
“This is a nine-day field-study course devoted to a survey of our nearest island possessions. It includes a rather thorough exploration of San Juan and its vicinity, including the University, the rain forest and the submarine gardens, a three-day trip through the island visiting pineapple, coffee, sugar, textile and rum producing areas, churches, homes and historic places. One day is spent in St. Thomas, largest of the Virgin Islands. The trip to and from the islands is made by air. It is offered during the Christmas holidays. Credit: 2 semester-hours.”
The group left New York on Christmas Eve and returned on January 1. Missing Christmas at home seemed not to discourage those eligible to participate. In fact, the college could have registered a hundred students for the trip and field course if there had been facilities to accommodate them.
Transportation was via the Pan American World Airways Tourist Service. The field trip was organized and conducted by Dr. Edgar C. Bye, Associate Professor of Social Studies and Director, New Tools for Learning Bureau, Montclair State Teachers College.
The National Council for Educational Travel had its fall meeting at the University of Denver in November, and will convene for its annual meeting in Atlantic City on February 16, during the American Association of School Administrators convention.
NCET consists of educators who are interested in travel for educational purposes, travel agents, representatives of transportation companies and representatives of educational publications. Its purpose is to promote this type of travel, to assist in establishment of standards for granting of credit for educational travel—whether semester hour credit, professional advancement credit in school systems, or credit bearing on state certification of teachers and otherwise to work toward more and better educational travel. It organizes no tours and has no commercial function whatsoever, although its members represent agencies which do have such interests.
All persons interested in educational travel are invited to attend the Atlantic City sessions.
NE A Plans for 1953
The tours operated by the Division of Travel Service of the National Education Association are especially tailored for teachers and other members of NEA.
For 1953, NEA is organizing groups to travel to Mexico, West Indies, South America, Europe, Alaska, Hawaii, and to points in the U.S. and Canada. (Many of the international tours are via Pan American World Airways. See November, 1952, (Continued on page 2)