4
Pan Au frrca tv
World AfRrnvs Teacher
THE CARIBBEAN ISLANDS Suggestions for Study Unit
By Eugenie G. Nadelman
1.	PROBLEM : How well do we know our
Caribbean Island neighbors?
1.1	Reasons for Selection :
1.	When studying voyages of the early explorers, especially Columbus, many of these islands are mentioned.
2.	Travel agencies are giving much publicity to these short trips. The number of tourists is increasing steadily. Some students or their families may have visited one or more of the Islands.
3.	In studying the expansion of the United States beyond its borders we learn about the acquisition of Puerto Rico, The Virgin Islands, and our relations with Cuba.
4.	Many Puerto1 Ricans are now settled in the United States and we should know more about the island from which they came
5.	Stores feature many products from these islands.
2.	PROBABLE DURATION : 2 weeks
3.	LAUNCLIING THE UNIT
3.1	Approach :
1.	A news article about the number of Puerto Ricans settling in the United States and telling of conditions on the island.
2.	Travel folders, advertisements of trips to Puerto Rico, Cuba, Jamaica, Haiti, The Dominican Republic and the Virgin Islands.
3.	Talk about the acquisition of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands by the United States and about the freeing of Cuba.
4.	Strip films and movies about life on any of these islands.
5.	Products with which the children are familiar might be displayed: sugar, tobacco, cedar and mahogany, ginger, bayrum, vanilla, etc.
6.	With older children poems by Whittier and Wordsworth about Toussaint L’Overture, and “Message to Garcia,” by Hubbard.
3.2	Subsidiary Problems :
1.	People of Puerto Rico are citizens of the United States. How much knowledge of the islands do we have?
2.	Why are these islands becoming increasingly important for economic and strategic value?
3.	What can you find out about typical life and culture on these islands?
4.	Why have these islands increased in importance as trade routes?
5.	What products are supplied the United States by these islands?
6.	What colorful and interesting historical figures are prominent in the history of the islands?
7.	What advantages has location given these small islands? Advantages which are not usually possessed by small independent countries.
(Continued on page 12)
OUR CLIPPER TRIP
Our flight to the Caribbean may begin either at New York or Miami.
From New York we can board either a 49-passenger Constellation-type Clipper or a 61-passenger DC-4-type Clipper. Both fly nonstop to San Juan, capital of the Spanishspeaking island of Puerto Rico.
The Constellation-type Clipper, which has a pressurized cabin for high-altitude, over-the-weather flying, offers first class service. The DC-4-type Clipper provides tourist service, which means it carries more passengers at fares 36 per cent lower than the first class fare.
In a Constellation, the flight between New York and San Juan takes six hours. The DC-4-type Clipper takes an hour and 25 minutes longer.
If we leave from Miami we can board either a 40-passenger Convair-type Clipper that stops at all the principal islands of the Greater Antilles or a Constellation-type Clipper that flies directly to San Juan in five hours.
Let’s suppose we are going to leave from Miami on the flight that touches all the islands—Cuba, Jamaica, Hispaniola and Puerto Rico. We leave at 9 :20 in the morning (Eastern Standard Time) and an hour and a half later we are gliding for a landing at the airport of the Cuban city of Cam-aguey. We have soared over a turquoise Atlantic ocean and crossed part of the island of Cuba. We have seen fields of sugar cane —Cuba is the world’s largest supplier of sugar—and rolling pastureland dotted with stately royal palms. Cuba, like all the other islands, is in the tropics. Coconut, cabbage and palm trees predominate. Oranges, grapefruit, bananas and many other fruits that grow well in warm climates abound. While the Atlantic Ocean washes the north coast of the islands (Jamaica excepted) the Caribbean Sea is on their south coasts.
If we decide to stop in Camaguey, which is in the interior of Cuba, we’ll see many ancient churches built during the days when Spain ruled this island. In one—the church of San Francisco1—the pirate Henry Morgan locked up most of the prominent citizens so he could loot their houses. That was back in 1665.
From Camaguey we fly in 58 minutes to Montego Bay on the British island of Jamaica. Jamaica is south of Cuba and the Caribbean Sea surrounds it. Montego Bay is one of the loveliest seaside resorts on the island, and every winter people from the North go there to enjoy the sunshine and swimming.
The next stop is Kingston, the capital of Jamaica. We reach it in 30 minutes, because Jamaica is not a large island—only 148 miles long and 52 miles wide. It is a very beautiful island, however, because it is extremely mountainous. Its tallest peak, part of the Blue Mountain range, is 7,402 feet high.
Kingston nestles in the foothills of the Blue Mountain range and slopes to the edge of one of the world’s six largest bays. In Kingston we may see the Hope Botanical Gardens with their wonderful collection of tropical trees and plants. Nearby is Port
Royal, famed stronghold of the 17th Century English buccaneers.
Continuing to the island of Hispaniola, we stop first at Port-au-Prince. This is the capital of Haiti, the only Negro republic in the Western Hemisphere. Haiti shares the island of Hispaniola with the Dominican Republic.
It took us only 83 minutes to fly from Jamaica to Haiti, but in that short space of time we have flown to another world. In British Jamaica English is spoken, but in Haiti French is the national language. This is because Haiti was a colony of France until it declared its independence on January 1, 1804, marking the first successful revolt against European colonial rule in Latin America.
Port-au-Prince is more than 200 yei -s old, but two earthquakes and a score of devastating fires have left little of the French colonial city. In its National Museum we find, however, one of the most historic relics in the New World—the tall iron anchor of Columbus’ flagship, Santa Maria.
The first American colony was founded by Columbus on the north coast of Haiti. It was called La Villa de la Navidad (Town of the Nativity) and it had 42 colonists. A year later when Columbus returned, he found the fortress his men had built in ruins and the colonists slain.
Haiti, like Jamaica, is also mountainous. We get a good look at these rugged ranges as we fly from Port-au-Prince to Ciudad Trujillo, the capital of the Dominican Republic. The flight takes an hour, and again we find a different world.
Ciudad Trujillo used to be called Santo Domingo. It was founded in 1496 by Bartolomé, the brother of Christopher Columbus. It is the oldest city in the Western Hemisphere and is full of fascinating landmarks such as the palace-fortress of Diego Colon, Columbus’ son, who once ruled the Spanish colony; the first university of the Western Hemisphere and the cathedral where the remains of Columbus are buried.
A 70-minute flight from Ciudad Trujillo brings us to San Juan. When we reach this sparkling city, we have crossed into a new time zone—the 60th meridian. San Juan, like Ciudad Trujillo, is full of historic landmarks since it was discovered by Columbus and settled by Spain.
From San Juan, we may return to either Miami or New York by the direct flights already described. If we choose the San Juan-New York flight, we shall fly over the Atlantic Ocean and, depending upon the weather, we may pass over the British Bahamas or Bermuda.
If, however, we want to visit the other islands of the Caribbean area, we can fly southwest from San Juan to the Dutch island of Curacao, with its picturesque capital, Willemstad, which looks like a bit of Holland. Or, we could travel from San Juan eastward and southward to the islands making up the Lesser Antilles—Uncle Sam’s Virgin Islands, British Antigua, French Martinique and Guadeloupe and, finally, just off the coast of South America, British Trinidad.