Pa/v Am Für ca tv
World Airways Teacher
7
outstanding example of devotion to cleanliness. There is a large central building with branches in different parts of the Capital. These markets are the most modern and hygienic, the most efficiently conducted of any in the American tropics. “The structures are airy and the cement floors, walls, and counters spotlessly clean,” writes Adolphe Roberts in his Lands of the Inner Sea. “Vegetables and fruits of the country,” adds Roberts, “are displayed in the greatest profusion, at prices a great deal below those prevailing in the shops outside. The meat department is run along model lines. You are separated by glass from the butchers, who take their wares from a refrigerator and show them to you on a platter. After you have made your selection the cutting and weighing is done with a minimum of handling. The order is wrapped in waxed paper and put in a compartment of a rotating drum, which is spun around to face you. If contamination occurs after you have accepted the package, that is your fault. You have been able to see for yourself that the meat was delivered undefiled.”
“Is the Corrida de sortijas the most typical Dominican game?” I ask a friend of mine from that Republic. After a brief moment he agrees. Then he gives me an idea of the game. The Corrida de sortijas (tournament of the ring) is a sort of game for skilled horsemen. It takes place in a race track. The spectacle is for everyone. There is a stand filled with pretty girls who sponsor the cavaliers. Before the cavaliers a wire is stretched across the track and strung with varicolored wooden rings with colored streamers. Riding at a great pace the cavalier must be able to spear a ring. The greater the number of rings speared the larger the number of ribbons flowing over him. In the old days the Spaniards rode with daggers, but the Dominicans today use little sticks.
Like most Latin Americans, the Dominicans are a poetic people. A New York editor remarked sometime ago that Latin America is the only place where poetry is still a commodity. Dominicans use poetic words to name common flowers. There is, for instance, a flower named azul lejos (blue distance) and this flower is just the color of a distant mountain. Or corazón del hombre (heart of man). The reason is that this flower changes color three times in its life span. There is one called memo poderosa (powerful hand). It is a flower that grips cement and climbs over it. And there is cadena de amor (chain of love), and a sweet, white flower named dama de noche (lady of the night).
Columbus was perhaps the first poet of the Dominican Republic. His Letter on the Discovery (1493) is a case to point. “The island,” he writes, “is very fertile. In it there are .. . many lofty mountains .. . most beautiful, of a thousand shapes, and all easy to walk through, and full of trees of a thousand kinds, and tall, so that they seem to reach the sky. . . The nightingale was singing, and there were other birds of a thousand kinds. . . It is a land to be desired, and, once seen, never to be left.” This is not all, of course. Columbus’ language, though hyperbolic, achieves often delightful effects, as when he speaks of trees that “ceased to be green and became black from sheer green-
ness,” or of “the chirping of crickets ali through the night” or when he says in simple words, “the nightingale was singing.” Was Columbus writing of Hispaniola or was he giving his impressions according to the literary fashion of his time?' In those days, to be perfect, a landscape had to be a garden of perpetual spring. Paradise itself had been so conceived for many centuries. And Hispaniola happens to' be green and full of flowers, fruits, and singing birds all the year round. And you will remember all these things and the friendly people, too.
Airs of the Caribbean
Haiti, according to Harold Courlander author of “Haiti Singing”, is probably one of the most interesting islands musically. Singing and dancing are a vital part of work, religious ritual, local gossip, commerce, and festivals. Haitians at some point are in touch with West African beliefs usually called vodun—the word which in the U. S. has become voodoo. Yet, vodun is not voodoo. It is a fusion of various West African religious systems, plus related concepts not essentially religious but dealing with the world of the supernatural.
What you are most likely to see in and around Port-au-Prince is a secular goodtime dance—perhaps the Pinyique—or a semi-secular dance such as the Martinique. Occasionally a pantomimic war dance may be seen or an acrobatic dance in which the performers do everything upside down, standing on their heads. The meringue is Haiti’s national ballroom dance. It has gone through many changes to get where it is today. The traditional meringue however has an outstanding guardian: the pianist and composer Fabre Duroseau.
Trinidad has become famous for its calypso singers and its steel bands. Where and how both of them began—in Trinidad or
m
anywhere—that could be a rare M.A. thesis. Put it was undoubtedly the folk singers and musicians of Trinidad who made calypso and the steel band what they are today. In its modern form, according to some Haitians, the calypso song is a commentary on politics, personalities or current events. Calypso singing outside of Trinidad has a polished format of such well-known pieces as “Rum and Coca Cola”, “Always Marry a Pretty Woman” (or “An Ugly Woman” as the singer may prefer) and SO' on.
It is in the particular style of delivery, experts agree, that calypso singing is unique. The use of archaic and synthetic words, the cramming of many syllables into small space, the importance of rhyming and the free conception of rhyme, all these are characteristic.
Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic are strong in Spanish tradition, though in several areas of Puerto Rico African rhythm, melody and dance patterns survive. The bomba, Mr. Courlander explains, is the best known of the African-style dances, and it is here that Puerto Rican drum rhythms are at their best. In the Spanish tradition there are the décimas—ballad-like songs often taking the form of obituary eulogies; the chorreo, a country dance, and the aguinaldos, Puerto Rico’s Christmas carols.
There is more similarity than difference in the music of the West Indies. What passes for a meringue in Haiti may be called a rumba in the Bahamas. Carnival activities, though different in details, are similar in general. Tangos, rumbas, sambas, and mambos can be heard anywhere in the islands—with words in Spanish, English, French, or Creole. The similarities are most evident in the popular café and ballroom dances and songs, which seem to travel through the Caribbean as fast as airplane
PUERTO RICO—This is the Fort of San Cristobal at San Juan. Air service provides a direct flight to San Juan from New York City.