Pan A herrcan
World Alrmvs Tfachfb
11
with the Dominican Republic following suit in 1844.
Guadeloupe and Martinique
Guadeloupe consists of two companion islands, Basse-Terre and Grand-Terre, and a group of smaller satellite islands. The entire group covers 668 square miles and lies between Antigua and Dominica in the Leeward Islands of the Caribbean. Martinique has an area of 385 square miles. Both Martinique and its sister island Guadeloupe are French possessions and have the same political and administrative status. Their governments consist of a Governor and an elected General Council. Both are represented in Parliament in Paris by Senators and Deputies.
The northeastern section of Guadeloupe, Grande-Terre, is a vast limestone plain planted with many sugar cane fields. The southwestern section, Basse-Terre, is high, crowned by volcanic mountains and has many rivers. In addition to sugar, other products of Guadeloupe are coffee, rum, cacao, vanilla and bananas. Pointe-a-Pitre, the chief commercial town has a population of about 50,000. Basse Terre, the capital, fortv miles away, has a population of about 12,500.
The population of Martinique is about 270,000 and Fort de France the capital, has a population of about 70,000. The island has a mountainous relief of a volcanic nature. Its main industry is basically the production of sugar cane and rum, to which can be added bananas and pineapple.
Curacao
A touch of quaint Seventeenth Century Plolland can be seen in the gabled houses of Willemstad, the capital of the Netherlands West Indian Territory on the Island of Curacao. Curacao is the largest and most important of the six islands making up the Dutch Territory. Lying 40 miles off the
Venezuelan coast, its population is composed of many different nationalities. Although Dutch is the official language, the people have a language of their own called Papiamento. This is closely related to Spanish and has many Portuguese words, as well as Dutch and African elements. Spanish is also widely spoken as is English.
Coral reefs surround the island on which vegetation is scanty despite fertile soil. The main industries are oil refining and phosphatic rock mining. The Island also exports dividivi for tanning, aloes, hides, skins, panama straw hats, crude salt and orange peel for making the well-known Curacao liqueurs.	///]
One Industry Common To All
One of the fastest growing projects in each of the Islands of the Caribbean, is an industry without a factory, without an assembly line and without machinery. It is the tourist industry. The desire of people in the United States to travel abroad provides a sound basis for this activity. Always searching for the new and different, Americans are beginning to discover that they can sample the atmosphere of Europe and Africa in the Caribbean at much less expense and in much less time. In addition, the combination of cultures existing in the area produce contrasts not found elsewhere. There is frequent Pan American World Airways Clipper service to the Caribbean and many “circle” tours that vary both in scope and in length of time. New and modern tourist facilities are being erected while others are still in the planning stages. EVverywhere the tourist industry flourishes, dollar incomes are increased and standards of living raised. Plealthier economies in the Caribbean mean almost as much to the United States as to the Islands themselves— which makes travel through the Islands fun with a double purpose....
CARIBBEAN
(Continued from page 4)
8. What are some reasons for the increase of tourists to these islands ?
4. EXPECTED OUTCOMES:
4.1 Subject Matter:
1.	Social Studies:
Location of islands, importance as naval bases, natural resources, products, few large cities, origin, many changes in ownership, progress and changes in living conditions, changes in industry, few important people, general facts about government, education, tourist trade, relations with the United States. (Social Studies material may be found in the pages which follow).
2.	Language Arts :
New Words—meanings are listed on last page In your reading you may find many words peculiar to these islands. Stress the use of poetic language and varied meanings of words.
Spelling—words that are needed and used in working out this unit. Oral communication — describing a trip, interviewing people who have made the trip, reporting on information gathered, telling about a movie or strip film, working in committees, reading parts of a story, reviewing'a book listed in the bibliography, explaining a picture or exhibit.
W r i t te n communication—planning an itinerary for a trip, •writing a diary of the trip, written reports and book reviews, writing stories about how some of the islands gained their independence, writing about a day on a sugar or tobacco plantation, about cedar wood, hemp and sisal, ginger and vanilla, about loading a banana boat.
Literature—“To Toussaint L’-Overture”—Wordsworth, “Tous-sain L’Overture”—Whittier, “A Message to Garcia”—Hubbard, Stories of Columbus’ voyages to the Indies (“Letter on the Discovery”), books listed in the Bibliography in this issue.
3.	Science :
Study of climate and how it differs on the various islands. What makes up an island climate ? Why are hurricanes so prevalent in some? What effect do trade winds have? Study of island for-nations, some of volcanic and some of coral origin. What is the effect of the climate on the lives of the people, their industries and products ?
4.	Health :
Types of food peculiar to each island, danger of fever from hot weather and abundant rainfall, study of the conquest of yellow fever, progress in sanitary conditions, food and clothing and
ST. LUCIA----This view of the harbor and the city of Castries was taken looking from
St. Atonnine.