16
est is essential to learning. The fact that the airplane is coming to be a familiar aspect of the environment of contemporary youth does not lessen his curiosity toward and interest in the aircraft and the part it plays in the drama of his day. Rather, it enhances this interest.
The teacher who fails to capitalize upon such a ready-made interest overlooks an opportunity. For, as will be illustrated subsequently, it is by subordinating the educational objectives which the teacher holds in mind to the need of his pupils to understand the tangible in their environment, that both teacher and pupil purposes are achieved.
Course Offerings Are Vitalized
To enrich any given course through use of appropriate, up-to-date aviation information serves to enliven a classroom activity. That aviation education succeeds in this is further evidence of its importance. The reader will immediately observe the relationship between such course enrichment and the problem of the cultural lag. Much slack is taken up when class and teacher, rather than awaiting interpretation by a textbook author, undertake to discover for themselves the implication of yesterday’s event for the subject of their study.
Aviation in Functional Education
The aviation education movement is of particular importance to the school in terms of the experience centered educational program, regardless of the term employed to designate such approach. Since aviation touches all significant areas of contemporary life, the teacher whose group decides upon an aviation project can guide his students so that his curricular activities neglect no area of essential understanding.
The Aviation Education Movement Requires the Use of Community Resources
To best serve the public’s interest in education, whenever possible, the public itself must become directly involved. To place the administration and operation of the schools in the hands of trained experts does not imply that cooperating interests of a community have nothing to offer. To< enlist the appropriate aid of, among others, the aviation facilities of a community is one sure way to convince industry and labor of their stake in education. Needless to- state, school administration should assume the initiative in any cooperative undertaking of this kind. The advantages to the public of such school-community cooperation are immediately apparent. It not only allows essential understandings to be acquired by students more effectively and completely, but very likely inspires greater and wiser use of cooperating agencies’ commodities than the most carefully prepared advertising campaign could bring about.
Aviation in Adult Education
The problems of the aviation-àge are deeply significant. Their solution depends upon both the formalized approach in education typified by the schools and the informal approach employed in most adult education efforts. Many of these latter, undertaken by novices, violate proven principles of education, consequently succeed only partially. Therefore, it is important that educational leadership begins to plan in
Pan American
World Airways Teacher
terms of a program of adult education suitable to an aviation-age It appears that unless positive steps are taken in this direction, the position now held by the United States in international affairs may be placed in jeopardy. For of greatest importance to the public is the role of the aviation education movement in relation to our nation’s airpower. And, by this term is meant not only military aviation, but also civil aviation, air routes, airports, and all related fields of effort. It means also an understanding of aviation’s part in international and world affairs. Perhaps this latter is of prime significance, for without it not enough can be accomplished in the other aspects of air power, nor can this be done with sufficient speed to maintain our national security.
V.
RELATIONSHIP OF THE AVIATION
EDUCATION MOVEMENT TO THE PROBLEMS OF NATIONAL SECURITY, PRESTIGE AND WORLD LEADERSHIP
Only a program of education which attempts to develop us as a nation of people conditioned to the air as the English in the Elizabethan era were conditioned to the sea can recapture the position in world affairs we enjoyed at the close of World War II. Events of that war demonstrated clearly that the aircraft destroyed for us the very favorable geographic situation we previously held. No longer could we rest in the assurance that oceans and wastelands provided us barriers against potential enemies. Now we must make the air our medium and strive not only to discourage aggression through the strength of our air power, but also to work toward abolishing war as an instrument of diplomacy.
Understanding of the Need for Air Power and Air Force
Inability to establish a world parliament or an association of nations empowered to settle international differences weighs bitterly on the minds of the peace loving peoples of the free world. It must not discourage them, for the leaders and peoples of the free nations must continue with firm patience to discover peaceful means for solving international problems. However, it appears necessary at the same time to forge weapons of force for defense in the hope that these will compel an armed peace. In World War I and II, there was a time for mobilization. World War III, if it comes, will be swift and devastating. The enemy will strike in many places, not just at military, industrial or transportation targets, but at population centers as well. Obviously, our defense must exist in such evident strength as to deter the attacker. Evidence of the power to strike back swiftly and with retaliatory effect appears to be at present our most convincing argument for peace.
Supremacy of Air Power Essential
In an age of atomic bombs, guided missiles, radio-active dust, and bacteriological contamination adequate defense requires a command of the air. America cannot relinquish her position as the international leader in air power. Even Britain whose tradition rightly has placed first reliance on naval power, now has assigned priority to air
power.3 In our own country the Congressional Aviation Policy Board reported early in 1948, “Until men of all nations can meet in good will in the council chambers of the world, anything less than this complete supremacy in air power is self deception.” 4 The Schools’ Contribution
If the military necessities of national defense thus dictate air power as paramount, it then becomes the duty of school systems to help youth and adults not just to understand aviation as another means of transportation, but also to understand its dominant role in defense. Schools must highlight in terms of defense the importance of civil air transportation, of plane and equipment, of production, and of the need for continuing research and development. Vocational programs will need to help train craftsmen for the highly intricate and specialized tasks involved in the fabrication and operation of modern aircraft.
Schools must give even greater emphasis to teaching youth to study issues, to sift facts, and to connect related elements in reaching conclusions. An important part of the process is to learn the technique of friendly disagreement on issues whether the parties involved are individuals, institutions, or nations. Youth must be helped to develop a generous spirit which preserves sincerity and worth in those with whom one disagrees.
Finally and most important, schools must urge the paramount importance of democratic and spiritual values. Only a nation deeply concerned with these will have that toughness of spirit which can maintain the struggle which faces the free peoples of the world. Not by navies, nor by guns and tanks, nor even by the most modern air force will we prevail. Reliance on these alone will find us in critical hours trembling in insecure shelters. We shall prevail only if our firmness be accompanied by that patience and true humility which will merit that support which is at once invisible and almighty.
SUMMARY
The aviation education movement takes cognizance of the fact that the invention of the aircraft and the subsequent use of aircraft in doing the work of the world have drastically affected the pattern of contemporary living. As a matter of fact, the aircraft has stepped up the tempo of modern life, widening still further the gap between the school and the society it serves.
An educational program to adequately serve an aviation age must concern itself with the technological and sociological characteristics of such an age. The aviation education movement undertakes to involve the community in programs of organized education. It is convinced that to do this establishes in a community realistic and vitalized educational procedures. The purposes of aviation education differ from those of other defensible educational programs in that they include giving adequate emphasis to an environment rapidly changing as a result of aviation’s impact. Of particular im portance in the aviation education movement is the implication of aviation for problems of America’s position in world affairs.
3	Statement relating to defense by Prime Minister and Minister of Defense to Parliament in 1948, Cmd. 6744.
4	Congressional Aviation Policy Board, Congress of the United States National Aviation Policy, Washington, U. S. Government Printing Office, 1948. p. 3.