Pan Au er icaV
May-June, 1951
economic, social and cultural committees set up but cannot take part in political activities.
The objectives of the League expressed in general terms are the coordination of the policies of the member states; the guarding of their independence and sovereignty; and a general concern with the affairs and interests of the Arab States. The executive organ of the League is a Council with each state having one vote but no state being bound against its own will by a majority decision. In the event of aggression or a threat of aggression whether affecting two
member states or a member state and a third party, the council will determine the measures necessary to repulse the aggressor. The member states are free to conclude treaties with other states and existing treaties were upheld. This pact allows the signatories unhampered participation in the United Nations and care was taken not to embarrass foreign interests in Arab lands. The League will have to stand the dual test of local needs as well as international requirements if it is to endure.
The remote history of Arab lands is lost in the midst of antiquity. Their contribu-
tions to civilization are manifold especially in the fields of astronomy, algebra, medicine and chemistry. The importance of these contributions is evident from the fact that about one thousand words currently used in the English language are of Arabic origin. Islam founded by the Prophet Mohammed in the Seventh Century AD is one of the three major religions in the world recognizing only one God. Its adherents now number about four million people. Today, the Arab lands are trying to shake off the dust of many centuries and emerge as healthy and vigorous nations.
EDUCATIONAL AIR TRAVEL
(Continued from Page 1)
country Spanish speaking culture to a large city English speaking industrial culture. Sponsors :
a)	For the University of Puerto Rico
Dr. Jaime Benitez, Chancellor of the University of Puerto Rico ; and
Dr. Ramon Mellado, Administrative Assistant, University of Puerto Rico
b)	For New York University
Theodore Schoenfeld, School of Education, New York University Credit : 8 points, graduate or undergraduate credit in New York University. Tuition: $15.50 per point plus $3.00 Uni-|versity Fee and $12.00 laboratory fee. Maintenance : The University of Puerto Rico will award 30 maintenance scholarships to New York City teachers, administrators, community and social workers who work in Puerto Rican homes, school or neighborhoods of our city. This means free board and room for six weeks. Those who do not receive maintenance scholarships may get dormitory accommodations and meals for six weeks for $125.00 (approximate figure).
Dates : Leaving International Airport, Idle-wild, New York City, July 4, 1951.
Course closes August 11, 1951.
Fares: By air (current rate, subject to change)
(a) $130.00—New York City to San Juan, Puerto Rico, and return (90 days allowance). Coach fare.
For official announcement and other details write to Mr. Theodore Schoenfeld, School of Education, New York University, Washington Square, New York City.
Summer School In Guatemala
A group for travel to Guatemala to attend summer courses at the University of Guatemala July 1 to August 12, is being organized by Mrs. Marjorie Keenleyside, Librarian, Roosevelt College, 430 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago 5, Illinois.
Mrs. Keenleyside advises:
} “We will leave Chicago on the City of New Orleans (Illinois Central) at 8 A. M., on Monday, June 25. We arrive in New Orleans at midnight, spend the night in a hotel, and leave by Pan American Airways on Tuesday A. M.
“We arrive at Merida, Yucatan, a little before noon. Here we expect to spend two
days visiting the Mayan ruins at Uxmal and Chichen-Itza, a sisal plantation, the seaport of Progreso, and the city of Merida itself.
“On Thursday noon we leave by Pan American, arriving in Guatemala City in the afternoon. We will spend the first weekend getting our bearings in the capital and visiting nearby Lake Amatitlan, a favorite resort of the residents of the capital. Our home for the next six weeks will be a pension a few blocks from the Summer School. The food there is excellent.
“School begins the following Monday. We will begin the registration process in Chicago and complete it on Friday morning, June 29. The opening reception will be on Saturday night. Classes are described in general as falling within the fields of Spanish language and literature (beginning and advanced). Latin American Literature, history, and culture, and Mayan anthropology. All classes except anthropology are conducted in Spanish. Here is a fine chance to learn to speak Spanish through both class room and everyday practice.
“Graduation and the farewell dance are on August 10. We will stay long enough into the next week to allow for packing, sending packages home, last minute shopping, and perhaps a day at the national fair. Then we will return as we came, by Pan American Airways and Illinois Central with an overnight stop in New Orleans.
“Each week-end we will leave the city and get acquainted with some other part of the country. We will visit such places as Lake Atitlan, with its surrounding Indian villages and beautiful mountain scenery; Chichicastenango, with its interesting combination of Pagan and Christian rites; Coban, famous for marriage chains, shadow cloth, leather, and tea; the July festival at Huehuetenango and nearby Mayan ruins of Zaculeu; a banana finca, a coffee finca; Antigua, the old capital, with its volcanoes and photogenic ruins; probably Mayan sites at Copan, Honduras, or Quirigua; or some other combination of trips equally appealing.
“Expenses will be kept at a minimum. We will avoid tourist hotels and tourist methods of travel. We will use public conveyances instead of taxis, and pensions instead of hotels. Minimum costs will be as follows unless unforeseen price increases make them impossible.
Illinois Central
(round trip)	$ 48.65
Hotel in New Orleans
(both ways)	8.00
Pan American Airways
(round trip)	148.35
Stop-over in Yucatan
(two days)	40.00
Board and room in Guatemala
(45 days)	135.00
Side trips (approximately)	100.00
University registration fee	5.00
$485.00
“Tuition is not included above and neither are textbooks. These items will vary according to the courses selected. Tuition is $60.00 for a full program of three two hour courses. One course costs $20.00 or two cost $40.00. Each person is required to secure his own tourist cards from the nearest Mexican and Guatemalan Consulates. The cost is $2.00 for the Guatemalan card and $3.00 for the Mexican card. Adjustments will be made for those joining the group in New Orleans.
“The $485.00 total does not include local bus fares or taxis, laundry, tips, pocket money for snacks, cokes, movies, dances, and other entertainment, or personal purchases. It provides for room and board through Saturday, August 11. If we stay longer, the rate is $3.00 per day. Rates do not allow for single rooms or private baths. We are going as students, not tourists, and the saving is tremendous. Many tourist circulars for a ten-day tour of this area touching less places quote between $700 and $800. We will be gone seven weeks for less than $500. It would cost almost that much to stay at home!
“Because we are required to make early reservations all along the line, your registration for the trip should be made by May 15. Latecomers will be accepted only if reservations on the same plane are still available. It will be necessary to pay only $175.00 at the time of registration. This will cover your plane fare, a 25 percent deposit on the stop-over at Yucatan, registration fee at the University, and the hotel in New Orleans on June 25. The balance of $310.00 will be due on June 15. This will cover train fare, Yucatan, room and board in Guatemala, week-end trips, and hotel in New Orleans on our return. Please include with your application two photographs of yourself, passport size, for the University.”