4
has 95,000 miles of airways connecting all principal cities. There are 500,000 miles of international air routes and 1,000 international traffic points.
In the cultural field, Mr. R. O. Mertes stressed, the airplane has brought people closer together. It has made us understand better the peoples of other lands, their religions, their ways of life. We must accept them as neighbors, know about them more of their similarities with us than their differences. Our culture has much to offer them; theirs much to offer us.
How are the programs in aviation organized? Mr. Mertes went on to say that in some schools emphasis is placed on fusing the materials of aviation into the curriculum. In other schools, fusion centers about an aviation education laboratory; and still in another, the program is simply a science of aeronautics course. “Don’t bring children at the end of the school year,” he added, “bring them at the beginning of the term.”
Mr. George Gardner of Pan American World Airways said that in Latin America aviation has given a quick solution for passenger and freight services to former secluded areas that could not be properly assimilated into the national economy because of the prohibitive cost of roads and railways. Whole new areas, he went on, have been brought to the doorsteps of the modern world and receive the impact of civilization. “Orchids are flown from Latin America to the United States, lobsters from Valparaiso, Chile, to Buenos Aires, Argentina, in less than 4 hours, and in Venezuela for the bullfights bulls are often flown in over the mountains to avoid the mood-destroying bouncing they’d get riding the tortuous hairpin drive from the hot tropical port of La Guaira or elsewhere, up to the 2,600-feet coolness of Caracas.”
It was pointed out during the discussion that the impact of aviation on our national life is present everywhere. It is well established in special fields such as meteorology and electronics. The study of the principles of aerodynamics is part of the study of every general science course. In the arts it is found in creative activities as construction of aircraft models, map making, etc. Professional and trade schools recognize the opportunities for our youth in aviation careers. In New York City, the Manhattan High School of Aviation Trades is outstanding.
Thus, we see aviation’s impact upon production, distribution, and consumption of goods and services, upon education and science, upon the conservation of human and animal resources. The classical illustration, however, on the use of the aircraft in alleviating human misery and in conserving life was the Berlin airlift. Over a period of fifteen months, a city comparable in size to Chicago had all of its needs supplied by air. One-third of the goods thus transported was food. Thanks to the aircraft—and the men who flew them—-Berlin was held.
At the beginning of the discussion Mr. Kenneth Newland brought up a charming little story which we might use to close our report. Dr. Frank Hart of the University of California, explained Mr. Newland, was speaking at a banquet at Corvallis, Oregon. An old lady came up after the
Pan AMERiCA/v
World Airways Teacher	May-june, issi
LA GUARDIA AIRPORT — George Gardner of Pan American World Airways and Dr. William H. Bristow, Director, Bureau of Curriculum Research, checking the flight plan for the Airport Institute.
speech and told him about the visit of a Bishop from the East to her family who were pioneers in the Oregon Territory. The night before his return to the East, the Bishop stated: “I now believe that man has achieved all that he can ever hope to accomplish in the way of scientific advances, and I believe that the end of the world cannot be too far off.” The old lady’s father spoke up and said: “Bishop, I disagree with you. I believe that man will even one day fly through the air like the birds.” The Bishop told the old lady’s father: “For that you should fry in Hell as the Bible clearly states that the power of flight is given only to God and the Angels and damned be he who ever tries.” The Bishop happened to be the father of Orville and Wilbur Wright, inventors of the airplane.
Tour of the Airport
The tour of LaGuardia Airport through the courtesy of Airport Guided Tours was interesting and educational. It was interesting to hear explained that during 1950 La Guardia handled 5,512,411 scheduled passenger arrivals and departures, 87,410,000 pounds of scheduled air cargo and 29,830,000 pounds of mail.
We heard of the new and improved equipment to aid the landing of commercial transports under bad weather conditions. This has been installed by the Civil Aeronautics Administration. The visiting party was told that the gross operating revenue at La Guardia Airport in 1950 amounted to $1,914,922 as compared with $1,857,580 in the previous year. Operating, maintenance and administrative expenses amounted to $1,800,152; net revenue before debt service was therefore $114,790.
It was a great experience to leave the earth for a while and get some first hand knowledge of the things that had been discussed in the meeting and the airport tour.
There was an overcast, or “cloud deck”, overhead, but Captain W. A. Piechota of the Eastern Air Lines DC-4 and his co-
pilot, R. L. Weber, promised the Curriculum Assistants that they would fly up through the clouds to the sunshine.
We all sat comfortably awaiting the take off. We took notice of the tasteful appointments of the cabin, the timetables and maps in pockets of the seat backs before us, the magazines in the rack (none of us wanted them), the ash trays in the arms of the seats. Some of us found it interesting that the informative signs about rest rooms, etc., were displayed in both English and Spanish.
Seventeen of the members of the group never had flown before, which accounted for the pleasant excitement prevailing.
With a whining crescendo, one engine started—then another, another, and another, so that all four were roaring. We taxied to the takeoff point, waited for our turn, and then moved on to the runway.
The engines roared with authority, the DC-4 gained momentum and, suddenly, we were airborne.
When we were at flying altitude Stewardess Bertha Parker told us we might unfasten our seat belts, move about if we liked, and smoke cigarettes if that suited our moods. Captain Piechota, turned northward with the DC-4 and flew us up the east side of the Hudson River, over the Bronx, across the Hudson to New Jersey, down the Jersey side to the ocean, then over Coney Island, over Queens and back to the vicinity of the airport.
That was not all, of course. The plane then climbed from 1,500 to 11,000 feet doing first what is called contact flying, that is, with the pilot seeing the earth, and then “over the top”, with the clouds forming a sort of a deck below, making it necessary to fly by instruments only.
At the highest point we found a clear bright sky. Below you could see only thin masses of clouds—the good old earth had disappeared.
One by one the members of the flying party went to the pilot’s compartment. With the earphones on, the instructions issued by the control tower below could be heard. The standard words and phrases adopted for the purpose were there. “Roger” meaning “message received”; “over” meaning “please reply,” or “out” meaning “communication ended, no reply requested.” It was reassuring indeed to know that our DC-4 flying high above the city was in touch with the control tower and that our exact position was known, at every moment by the people at the airport.
Finally our Douglas DC-4 began to descend. “Twenty-four dollar” Manhattan Island seemed to increase in value as the toy-like skyscrapers stretched out to meet us. Even Lady Liberty at the bay looked like a tiny speck on the Hudson River mouth. Her symbolic meaning transcended in time and space her material representation, but looking at her from afar we felt the freedom of the soul.
The airplane is still one of the greatest inventions of this century. Rightly, Dr. John Furbay, of TWA, said just before landing, that “the airplane, atomic energy and the creation of the United Nations” constitute the hope of humanity.