10
Pan Amerícan
World Airways Teacher
May-June, 1951
Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
NEDJ, SAUDI ARABIA — A farmer at the A1 Kharj experimental farm, and his family.
House. Members of the Senate consist of twenty elder statesmen nominated for eight years. The Lower House of 115 Deputies are elected. In 1938, the first unconditional most fa.vored nation treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation ever to be negotiated between two countries was signed by the United States and Iraq. The country covers 116,000 square miles and has a population of 280,000 people. Its principal city of Baghdad and principal port, Basra, are both served by Pan American World Airways.
Iraq, once known as Mesopotamia (meaning between the rivers), is one of the oldest inhabited regions in the world. In Iraq mythology has planted the Garden of Eden, erected the Tower of Babel and precipitated the Great Flood. The first recorded solid historic facts of human experience took place in the region. Lying in the valley of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, Iraq was once part of the ancient Babylonian Empire. It is a land of great potentialities as the soil is very fertile, but there are vast areas which can only be cultivated if irrigated by canals or pumps. In the south of the country a solid forest of date palms stretches a hundred miles along both banks of the Shatt-el-Arab River. In ancient times the plains between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers were grassy instead of barren as they are now. At present only the river banks in irrigated areas are reminiscent of the past. In ancient Babylonia these plains were varied by groves of date palms and intersected by canals. Both rivers were harnessed by a complicated system of water distribution which was carried on by the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, the Assyrians, the Persians and at first by the Arabs. But when the Arab Government weakened, the system fell into disrepair and with the Mongol invasion of the Thirteenth Century, the magnificent waterways fell into ruin.
At present engineers are tackling the problem of irrigation but river beds have been ruined by centuries of neglect and individual tapping of rivers and canals has gone on without plan. The Government’s Irrigation Department now operates several canal systems and new irrigation works are under construction.
Present Wealth and Past Glory
Iraq’s greatest natural wealth is petroleum. The nation’s supplies are among the richest in the Near and Middle East, centering about Kirkuk north of Baghdad and Quayyara south of Mosul. An oil refinery near the Persian Frontier is operated by a subsidiary of the Anglo Irian Oil Company. Oil for consumption in Iraq is refined here and distributed by an associated company all over the country at cheap prices controlled by the government. The field at Kirkuk was tested by the Iraq Petroleum Company, an international group which has constructed pipelines to the Mediterranean in order to go into production. The British Oil Development Company holds a concession for oil covering Iraq territory west of the Tigris and north of the 33rd parallel of latitude. The Basra Petroleum Company has a concession for oil covering the southernmost part of the country. Outside of oil, the chief products of Iraq are wheat, barley and dates. The country furnishes about 80% of the world’s total output of dates. Wool is also an important export.
Baghdad, capital of the New Kingdom of Iraq is perhaps one of the most familiar cities found in any Arab land. Due to the Arabian Nights its name means magic to everyone. Approaching the city one sees a line of buildings with a golden gleam of a distant mosque. On the west bank of the Tigris River which flows through the city are white balconied houses standing amid the green fringes of date palms On the east bank modern Baghdad clusters with its main
street lined with little shops and its incredible chaos of lesser streets and lanes. There are blue skies and warm sunlight. Built ini true Babylonian tradition, the native build-" ing material of the city is mud brick. The chief architectural decoration of the old city, glazed tile, is used sparingly in modern Baghdad to decorate cupolas of mosques.
Baghdad was founded in 762 and for five hundred years thereafter was the center of Moslem civilization and culture. Endless caravans from east and west made it a central market for trade between Europe and Asia. With the rise of Turkish power however in Asia Minor, Baghdad lost its position of dominance and was all but forgotten by the world until the Great Powers began competing for influence in Asia. After World War II, as part of the British Mandate, the city’s population doubled and passed the 300,000 mark. It is slowly being modernized and there are now modern hotels, hospitals, public services and schools. As a British Mandate many Iraqi learned to speak English and read English books and its people developed a critical and intelligent literary appetite. The city’s new airport serves as a terminal for foreign air systems to the Far East. Baghdad has been plundered and destroyed, rebuilt and flooded so many times that little remains today to remind one of its ancient past. The museum is its greatest attraction. Within its walls are many astonishing objects found at Ur which moved the dawn of history back another thousand years and which rival the discoveries of Tut-Ankh-Amen in Egypt .in archeological importance
Sixty miles south of Baghdad are the ruins of the city of Babylon. Even local trains, not scheduled to stop for the convenience of tourists, pass by. On every side sandy mounds lie in the sunlight. Some are large enough to be hills, others are low ridges and still others are the merest uneasy risings and fallings of the earth. This is what remains of the city whose Hanging Gardens were among the Seven Wonders of the World; the city which housed hordes of officials, bankers, markets, docks and countless industries. Four horse chariots could have passed on its walls and one altar alone was known to have burned thousands of talents worth of incense each year. Babylon used to be an immense city surrounded by a fertile countryside, today it has only silent mounds, cavernous ruins and dusty chocolate bricks.
The Future and Arab Lands
One of the major problems agitating all Arab lands recently has been the broad question of Arab unity. The general principle of international Arab cooperation was given concrete expression in the Arab revolt against Turkey of 1916-18 but afterward there developed a wide range of difference as to the scope, form and procedure of such cooperation. Each Arab country was faced with its own particular domestic problems. One of the most unifying forces has been the common cultural and economic interests of the Arab world and this played a decisive role in the formation of the League of Arab States in 1945. Membership in the League is open to all independent Arab States. Dependent Arab States can join in the work of the