May-June, 1951
Pah AmERiCA/v
Wo rid AfRmrs Teacher
9
selors, determines the will of his people and invariably seeks the approval of the majority through their accredited leaders. The
■_same pattern is followed when decisions
affecting the general policy of the government are taken.
However, aside from the Koran, the Prophets recorded sayings, and precedent, the whole country observes the Constitution of the Hejaz, promulgated in 1926 and amended in 1932 when the unified kingdom adopted its new name of Saudi Arabia. This Constitution provides for a Council of Ministers headed by one of Ibn Saud’s sons to whose office the Ministry of the Interior is also attached.
The other Ministries provided by the Constitution are those of Foreign Affairs, Finance, Defense and Departments of Public Security, Public Health, National Education and Religious Endowment, Public Post and Telegraph, as well as Army and Coast Guard Services.
In 1936 a Department of Mines and Public Works was established as part of the Ministry of Finance in order to deal with foreign companies holding interests in Saudi Arabia. A new Department of Agriculture is being organized.
Administratively, the Kingdom is decentralized into four major regions comprising the four principal provinces each of which is headed by a governor responsible to the central government. Judges are responsible to the department of Legal Affairs
% regarding legal procedures and court decisions. The Supreme Justice heads the Court of Appeals and final appeal may be carried to the King himself.
About ISO public schools throughout Saudi Arabia offer the youth a basic elementary education. These schools are run cooperatively by the Government and various national agencies. In addition to about 113 high schools there are fifteen theological schools. Special attention is being given now to a new Arabian system of vocational training which at the same time prepares students for higher education.
Four schools have adopted curricula enabling their graduates to enroll as sophomores at the American University of Beirut in Lebanon, or any equivalent university abroad. As a result of this experiment, since 1930, the government has been sending students to Egypt, Lebanon, France, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In 1946 the United States was added to the list of countries where Saudi Arabian students with promising records have been sent for the completion of their education. In the meantime, the government is studying plans for the establishment of a university.
The Lebanon
Students of Saudi Arabia did not have to wait until 1946 however, to have an opportunity to take advantage of American educational facilities. For many years they •have been attending the American Uniyer-sity of Beirut in Lebanon.
The Lebanon is an independent state on the coast of the Mediterranean bordering the Republics of Syria and Israel. Its capital and principal city Beirut is about 15 hours by air from London by Flying-Clipper.
The American University is a model organization, up-to-date in construction and equipment. On its campus facing the Mediterranean sea stand clinics, an observatory, laboratories and many other buildings. It is a cultural landmark in the Arab East, and one of the outstanding contributions of the United States in Arab lands.
Lebanon itself is an interesting country to visit. It became a French Mandate after the first World War and in 1941 control was transferred to the Free French and Great Britain. In 1944 it was officially declared to be a free and independent nation. The population of 1,137,000 is about half Christian, half Moslem.
The Lebanon is located in one of the most fertile regions in western Asia. It is dotted with scrupulously clean villages and is famous for its health resorts such as Alleili, Brumana and Ain Solar, the latter with modern hotel facilities and a casino.
Primarily an agricultural country, Lebanon is famous for its red wine. Heavy purple grapes are allowed to lie freely on sun baked ground which throws heat from the sun back on them like an incubator. Thus the soil actually helps the grapes to get their rich flavor. Other agricultural crops include wheat, barley, maize, lentils, hemp, cotton, olives, apricots, figs, mandarines and lemons.
Thè country has some iron and coal and there are indications of petroleum in various places. There is an abundance of marble and good building stone. Industries are on a very small scale with flour, oil, soap and silk thread (centered mainly around Beirut) the most important.
Once Lebanon was covered with cedar forests. Now the land has only about four hundred trunks left. In the Middle Ages when forestry was unknown, the Venetians and the Genoese felled most of the cedars to build their galleys and galleons. The remaining trees now form a government pro-
tected national monument near the village of Bcherre. Some of the trunks are believed to be two thousand years old.
Three of the most ancient cities of antiquity Tyre, Sidon (now Saida) and Berytos (now Beirut) are located in the Lebanon. Years ago thesse cities were coastal settlements of Phoenicia, which sent a steady stream of colonists, merchants, warriors, navigators and administrators westward in little galleys.
Near Beirut, by a river, stands a rock upon which is written a history of the ages. On it Pharaoh Ramses II in the Fourteenth Century BC commemorated his victories, as did Assyrian kings five and seven hundred years later. In 1861 a French Military Expedition chiseled on the rock and in 1918 the English added their inscription. Farther up the same territory to the north, on mountain peaks that face the Mediterranean, stand dreadnought shaped fortresses built by the Crusaders. Some well preserved fortresses still have steel arrows sticking high up in their walls.
Iraq
When Saudi Arabia won its freedom from Turkish domination after World War I, so did the New Kingdom of Iraq. However, this land was placed under Mandate and allocated to Great Britain. In 1930 it was recognized by treaty as an independent nation and two years later was admitted to membership in the League of Nations. Like Saudi Arabia, Iraq is a country of great strategic and economic importance based on geographical position and on its valuable supplies of black gold (oil). In the north of the country are the fabulously rich oil fields of Mosul which are connected with the port of Haifa in Israel by a pipe line.
Iraq is governed by a King whose powers are restricted by a Constitution. There is also a Legislature representing the people which is composed of a Senate and a Lower
Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
AL HASA, SAUDI ARABIA — Repairing one of the pipelines running from the refinery to the marine terminals. These pipelines carry crude oil and finished products along the split that connects the marine terminal and the refinery.