Pan AMERfCAN
May-June, 1951	WORLD AfRWAYS TEACHER
THE ARABIAN PENINSULA
(Continued from Page 1)
Seventeen countries have representatives in Saudi Arabia, while that nation is represented in fifteen countries abroad. It is a member of the Arab League and one of the first signatories of the United Nations Charter.
Until the discovery of oil during the Nineteen Thirties, Saudi Arabia was regarded as one of • the poorest countries in the world. The extent of its development in the agricultural field has always been curtailed by scarcity of water. Neither the skies nor the ground were ever generous in this respect.
Most of the oases and other inhabited regions depend on subterranean water for their daily usage and for irrigation. But, even the subterranean water when found is not always easy to tap, especially since in some places it lies at a depth of several hundred feet. Even when it is brought up to the surface it is often found to be saline, and there is a possibility that when water is tapped in one place it may either diminish or dry up entirely in a neighboring region.
Scarcity of water is one of the chief problems of the present government which is constantly endeavoring to dig more and more wells in order to make water available to the wandering Bedouins and thereby induce them to settle down to an agricultural mode of life. On the other hand, such wells afford relief to the nomads com-, pelled to roam about the country in search of grazing grounds for their herds.
The perennial pilgrimage to Mecca was the main source of wealth prior to the discovery of oil in the country. During the last two World Wars pilgrimages from the outside world were virtually halted causing the country to suffer a severe economic setback. There were government attempts to start the development of small projects to encourage local industries, but in such a vast country as Saudi Arabia, these efforts were not sufficient to relieve the people from their economic difficulties.
The government then began to study other possibilities for reviving the economic life of the country. In 1933, an American oil company was granted a concession (due to expire in 2005) for oil exploration in an area of about 450,000 square miles. This concession is held today by the Arabian American Oil Company (ARAMCO) which in turn is jointly owned by four oil companies in the United States. Test drilling began in 1934. In 1938 oil was struck in commercial quantities in the region of Damman on the Persian Gulf and in 1939 the first oil shipment left Saudi Arabia. Today production amounts to about one half million barrels daily. Thus it may be safely assumed that oil has become Saudi Arabia’s main source of wealth.
Black Gold And Aviation
Aviation played an important part in the revolutionary transition of Saudi Arabia’s economy. When American petroleum experts were negotiating with King Ibn Saud for rights to explore for oil in the country, negotiations were carried on at the King’s palace in Riyadh, located in the central part of the Arabian peninsula. At that time,
Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
SAUDI ARABIA — Salim Ibn Abdullah, a roughneck, working on an Aram-co (Arabian American Oil Co.) drilling rig located south of Abqaiq.
the only practical means of surface transportation from the Red Sea to Riyadh was by camel train. This took weeks, moving from one desert encampment to another, freezing at night, creeping hour by hour and day after day through sun and sand. Had there been no alternative, negotiations would have lagged seriously and there were other interested parties bidding for a concession in the same area. However, by means of periodic flights from Cairo to Riyadh, time and distance were reduced to permit efficient action. Consequently resources destined to be vital to continuing democratic supremacy in the Middle East fell to American interests.
After the rights tO' explore had been obtained, it became necessary to establish a base of operations and lines of communi-
cations for geological surveys. Because Arabia was utterly devoid of industry, and except for dates, barren of agricultural produce, geologists were totally dependent on the airplane to bring them the necessary food, clothing, tools and construction materials. In addition it was necessary to make periodic flights to Riyadh to consult with the King as progress was made. The successful conclusion of this work, borne out by the position of the Arabian American Oil Company in Saudi Arabia today, was based in large part on the use of air transportation. The airplane has not only accelerated the discovery of oil but has contributed immeasurably to the security of American interests in Arabia.
Tremendous changes have occurred in Arabia since it became air conscious. The air age has created an economic as well as a social revolution. Oil interests, being the source of the impact of the air age, have been unstinting in their efforts to educate the Arabs to an understanding of the implications of the air age at the same time taking care not to remove the traditional props too quickly.
For the very young, this means schools with appropriately trained teachers. There the students are taught subjects and mechanical techniques suitable to their lives and to their jobs. For those able to take an active part in the affairs of the land, it is likely to mean training in aeronautics at the Saudi Arabian air base on the Persian Gulf which is currently under lease to the United States. Thus natives have an opportunity to receive on the job training from skilled American personnel in Arabia. Many Arabs are also transported to ARAMCO’s United States base on Long Island in New York for further job training.
The importance of such training is obvious when one realizes that the Russian oil fields at Baku are but a few hours distant by air from Saudi Arabian fields. There is no need to mention what the loss of such
Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
SAUDI ARABIA — Selling and buying sheep in the market square of Qatif, a coastal town on the road between Dharan and Ras Tanura.