Pan Aumcan
May-June, 1951	AIRWAYS
3
AIRPORT INSTITUTE
By Enrique Portes
An airport institute for the Curriculum Assistants in the New York City Schools this spring provided these curriculum advisers with a fund of knowledge on aviation education just at the time they were starting on planning for the fall term.
This institute, requested by Dr. William H. Bristow, Director of the Bureau of Curriculum Research for the New York Schools, was presented by the educational departments of Pan American World Airways, United Air Lines, Trans World Airlines and American Airlines, cooperating with the Civil Aeronautics Administration, and with flight experience by courtesy of Eastern Airlines.
The pattern which has been developed by the Aviation Education Division of the Civil Aeronautics Administration for institutes of this type was followed, and educators desiring to operate such programs should communicate with a regional office of the C.A.A. or write to the Aviation Education Division in Washington, D. C.
The New York program took place on April 12, 1951, at La Guardia Airport. What was its purpose? To provide for those who participated an afternoon of firsthand aviation experience, and to see that the educators had the opportunity to discuss professional problems and to have (answered questions relating to aviation operations at an airport, and in the air.
At 2:30 p.m. the institute started under the chairmanship of James V. Bernardo, Assistant to Regional Administrator of the Civil Aeronautics Administration. The fifty or more educators gathered for the occasion heard brief remarks by such distinguished officers as Dr. Wm. H. Bristow, Director of the Bureau of Curriculum Research; O. W. Young, Regional Administrator of the Civil Aeronautics Administration, and V. A. Carson, Superintendent of La Guardia Airport, The Port of New York Authority.
The discussion which followed dealt with “Aviation in the Modern Curriculum.” Kenneth Newland, Dean of Instruction of Stephens College, Columbia, Missouri, and Director of Air Age Research for American Airlines, acted as discussion leader, and participated in the panel of representatives of several U. S. airlines: These were George Gardner, Educational Director of Pan American World Airways; Elizabeth C. Shafer, Director of Women’s Division of Trans World Air Lines; R. O. Mertes, Director of School and College Service of United Air Lines; and Mr. Bernardo.
The ideas advanced and the points made by the participants covered the application of aviation concepts throughout the curriculum. One speaker pointed out the impact of aviation upon the institutions and peoples of the world, and its influence on the objectives of specialized education. Another stressed the fact that the present situation is more than one of occupational opportunities, for school authorities and teachers alike need a thorough understanding of the social effects of the airplane. This problem, the speaker went on, is one of general education; pupils and teachers must develop new attitudes. The airplane is a symbol of the changes and trends of contemporary life. It is also a symbol of the dangers implicit in every technological advance.
It was stated that all of the implications which the airplane has for social change and the schools’ curriculum stem from the fact that it virtually annihilates space and that its operation is three-dimensional. In other words, it can travel at speeds progressively greater than those attained by any means of surface transportation. Its direction need not be accommodated to surface obstacles. It uses the air as its pathway— and the air is everywhere.
During the discussion some one brought attention to the fact that a recent CAA report states that the practical uses of air-
LA GUARDIA AIRPORT—Curriculum Assistants from the New York City Schools assemble under the wing of an Eastern Air Lines Douglas DC-4 after their flight over New York City during their Airport Institute.
craft in 1947 were considered to be approximately sixty. Through aviation’s novel and ingenious uses the industrial interests of our nation have secured results heretofore achieved with difficulty. During the war new sources of rubber, minerals and other items in scarce supply could be utilized only as aviation made them available.
One of the panelists pointed out that the aircraft is perhaps the greatest development in recent years in agriculture. In planting, cultivating, even harvesting it has come to play a part. Even in the matter of rain-making the airplane holds some promise. During the water shortage in New York City in 1950, the Mayor appropriated $50,000 to employ aerial rain-makers.
The airplane and the helicopter have been employed in farm chores. The crops of orchards and wheat fields have been kept from perishing through using aircraft to generate downward currents, which keeps the frost from settling on blossoms or young plants. The aircraft has also been used after rainfall to dry cherries and dates, and thereby prevent decay. The airplane offers the speediest possible transportation of perishable commodities. Because of this fact, whole new industries are arising. Certain areas in the South are now given over to the raising of young plants for early season planting in Northern states; and the service of consumer markets for out-ofseason vegetables, fruits, and flowers is facilitated.
Another panelist explained how the farmer has found the aircraft of value in the care and improvement of his farm animals, poultry, and bees. How the aircraft helps effectively during blizzards not only to feed marooned stock, but also to provide food, clothing and medical supplies to snowbound neighbors. Even the fishing industry saves much time and effort through spotting schools of fish from the air. In other fields, it was pointed out, such as patrolling of pipe lines, electric transmission lines, game and fishing reserves, the airplane has been found most useful. It has also been used in hunting and herding predatory animals. Mineral and oil resources, hitherto undiscovered, are now been mapped through the use of the aircraft and the magnetometer.
It was pointed out that the development of aviation has greatly expanded the area of salable skills. It takes, for instance, 63 people on the ground to keep one aircraft in the air. The airlines employ half a million people. One million more are employed in the aviation manufacturing industry and in other related industries.
How about the careers open to students? Aviation needs not only pilots, but also aviation engineers, airport administrators, and technicians in a hundred industrial fields. It needs everything from dieticians to electronic engineers, and requires the services of photographers and lawyers and doctors. Aviation offers attractive opportunities to girls. The number of hostesses or stewardesses is over 600, according to Miss Elizabeth Shafer. “The most interesting fact is,” Miss Shafer went on, “that it takes them about six months to marry.”
It is natural that there should be plenty of opportunities for all. The United States