Pa tv Amtrica/v
May-June, 1951	World Aieuavs Teacher
INTERNATIONAL HOUSE
One of the most extensive inter-Amer-ican exchange of students ever undertaken gets under way this summer sponsored by International House of New Orleans—a unique organization dedicated to world peace, trade and understanding, now in its sixth year of service.
Under the program, students from all over Latin America, and students from all over the United States will be helped to spend several months of study in a reciprocal program based on their individual scholastic interests.
Mario Bermudez, director of International Relations for International House, and Clay Shaw, general manager of the International Trade Mart, returned last month from a two and a half month trip to Latin America via Pan American World Airways and Pan American Grace Airways where they conferred with ministers of education, other government and educational leaders and newspapermen on the exchange program and arranged special summer courses for United States students in leading Latin American Universities.
During the trip, they visited principal cities in Chile, Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Brazil, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Venezuela and Panama to set up liaison committees that will assist Latin American students in selecting schools they wish to attend and in making arrangements for their journey to this country and that will work with International House in all phases of the exchange program.
Present plans call for United States students to attend classes in the universities of these eleven countries, while students
STUDENT EXCHANGES
from Latin America will have a choice of any of fifteen schools in Mississippi and Louisiana, where they can take special short courses to perfect their English and study U. S. life and customs. Students from both Latin America and the United States are being offered special courses at the Universities of Madrid, Barcelona and Granada, Spain, also, under the International House program.
As an added feature of the student exchange plans, all schools participating will grant one scholarship for every ten students enrolled from each foreign country, thus giving a large number of students an opportunity to study in a foreign country with all expenses paid.
Latin American countries are enthusiastic about the program and are cooperating with International House in everyway possible to make it a success, Bermudez and Shaw reported following their return. “The International House student exchange plans met with approval in every country we visited, “they said. “Indications are that approximately 1500 Latin American students will come to Mississippi and Louisiana schools to study this summer and we expect that more than 3000 Latin Americans will participate in the program by 1952.”
At the same time, hundreds of students from the United States will fly to Latin America and Spain to study Spanish, history and other subjects and to learn more about the life and customs by living in private homes and by taking trips in the country where they are attending school under the program.
Both Pan American World Airways and
Panagra have assisted International House in this cultural project by flying brochures and other material about the program to the Latin American countries and helping with the distribution. United States ambassadors, members of the staff at the embassies, consulars and other government and business leaders also have worked with International House in arranging the largest program of student exchange ever attempted by a single organization.
The present large scale program is a development of the International House student interchange program begun four years ago in cooperation with Louisiana State University of Baton Rouge, and each successive year has broadened its activity until seven schools in Mississippi and Louisiana and three schools in Latin America were participating in the program during the summer term of 1950.
During the last four years, more than 1000 students from a dozen different Latin American countries came to Louisiana State University for a six weeks’ course each year, and in 1948 Mississippi Southern College at Hattiesburg, Miss., also joined the program. The latter school has sponsored four courses each year since that time with approximately 50 students per course.
In 1950 these two schools were joined by Centenary College at Shreveport, La.; Southwestern Louisiana Institute at Lafayette; Southeastern Louisiana at Hammond; Millsaps College at Jackson, Miss., and Mississippi Women’s College at Hattiesburg in offering special summer courses for Latin Americans sponsored by International House which saw nearly 300 Latin American students participating.
Courses also were arranged for students from the United States at the University of Yucatan in Merida; the University of Costa Rica in San Jose, and the University of Antioquia in Medellin, Colombia, to give practical training in Spanish and the Latin American way of life. These also were sponsored by International House.
“The new program for 1951 is the most extensive undertaken by us or any other organization to further this basic need for an interchange of students, teachers and others between our country and the countries of Central and South America,” Lloyd J. Cobb, president of International House, stated in announcing the new plans.
“We feel that the ends of inter-American solidarity and understanding, on which we base our hopes for profitable two-way trade and future peace, can best be served by such a program of interchange to allow people of one country to learn the language, habits and customs of another.”
There were 48 students at Centenary College during the summer of 1950, nearly 100 at Louisiana State University and more than 40 at Mississippi Southern, with a dozen or more also attending the other schools participating in the program.
Last September, 46 students from South America arrived in New Orleans en route to Mississippi Women’s College for a year of study at that institution as part of the International House program.
While the students are in the United States, International House is expressly
NE^V ORLEANS — Students from Peru attending special courses at Louisiana State University under the International House interchange program chat with Mario Bermudez, Director of International Relations for International House (second from left).