Pan American
8 WorldTeacher	May-June, 1951
RAS TANURA, SAUDI ARABIA----------The bodyguard of the Amir of Hasa looking at
the cruiser U.S.S. Toledo, during the visit of the ship to Saudi Arabia.
vast oil reserves would mean to the rest of the democratic world.
The airplane was the first substantial experience of the Arabs with mechanized transport. With the construction of motor roads, it is only recently that the automobile has meant much to them. However, the desert has a way of reclaiming roads. The airplane is more reliable. And with the many flights by Arabian and overseas aircraft over the country, the plane is a familiar mark on the horizon.
The impact of the air age has greatly quickened the process of transition from a feudal to a modern society. More and more the Arabs are eager to assume the changed living standards being revealed to them.
Dhahran is the main center of Saudi Arabian oil and has one of the largest airports in the Middle East. In all respects it is a modern town developed according to American planning. Its population is about 15,000 of which a good number are Americans engaged in the oil industry.
Apart from oil, Saudi Arabia is noted for breeding horses and camels and for raising cattle, and sheep. Other products include mineral ores, oriental pearls, hides, gum arabic, honey, dates and sorghum. In spite of the dryness of the atmosphere and the salinity of the soil which militate against an abundant or luxuriant growth the country is rich in dates, which with camel’s milk, constitute the two essential ingredients of the daily diet of most Bedouins. It may be of interest to note in this connection, that there are over two hundred varieties of dates in Saudi Arabia, and to a much smaller extent barley, corn, Mocha coffee, rice and wheat are also cultivated.
Saudi Arabian Cities
Mecca, the largest city in Arabia and the most important commercial center is one of the two capitals of the vast kingdom since
the King spends considerabe time in this town, which houses the most important offices of the government. As the cradle of Islam and the birthplace of the Prophet Mohammed it is the journey’s end of the devout pilgrim, who worships there in the Ka’bah mosque, considered the holiest shrine of Islam. During peacetime this and other shrines are visited every year during the pilgrimage season by thousands of Moslems from all over the globe. Mecca’s population, which normally is 100,000 doubles during this period. Consequently the pilgrimage can afford an important revenue to the Kingdom.
Jeddah, situated on the Red Sea with a population of about 40,000 is the main seaport of Saudi Arabia and the natural harbor for Mecca. This city is interspersed with a good number of modern buildings, some of which house the diplomatic corps. Representatives of foreign companies also have offices in Jeddah whose population is growing fast in view of its expanding business activities with the interior.
Riyadh, situated on a plateau in the interior with a population of about 90,000 may be considered as the other capital of the Kingdom since his majesty the King and the royal family have made it their home. It is an important business center attracting considerable trade from the outlying central and eastern sections of the country. It contains various ancient relics, some of which have not yet been fully explored.
The second holy city of Islam, Medinah, is the burial place of the prophet Mohammed and his favorite daughter Fatima. In this city also are the tombs of the first four Caliphs of Islam, each of whom led an exemplary life combining fervorent faith and piety with skillful political leadership. Many other important figures of Islam are also buried in Medinah. Invariably, the pilgrim pays homage to Allah in this city after having visited Mecca.
Today Medinah has about 60,000 people.. Prior to World War I a railroad connected Medinah with Damascus, Syria, but during that war it was destroyed and has not functioned since. Plans are being discussed now for the resumption of rail service which, would do much to revive the economic life of Medinah.
With the exception of a forty five mile road connecting Mecca with Jeddah its seaport, most of the country’s main highways are still unpaved. However, a new semi-asphalted 325 mile road was built recently between Riyadh and Jubail on the Persian Gulf. Another 239 mile paved highway between Jeddah and Medinah is now under construction. The automobile and the airplane are now the most effective means of covering vast distances inside Saudi Arabia,, although the camel and the donkey are still being used as a means of transportation,, especially in the rugged regions of the country. The Saudi Arabian airline is. owned and operated by the Government.
Coastwise shipping is active between the various ports, both on the Red Sea and the Persian Gulf. The Government is undertaking the building of a railway system to connect Dhahran with Riyadh. Jeddah can now boast of a modern harbor on the Red Sea and Damman on the Persian Gulf has been chosen for a sea and railway terminal.
It is interesting to note that of 450,000 pilgrims who flocked to Saudi Arabia in 1949, about 11,200 used airlines, 80,000 arrived by sea through the port of Jeddah, 1241 made the trip by automobile via Riyadh and Medinah, while the remaining pilgrims used other conveyances.
Government
The dominant position which Saudi Arabia holds among the states of Arabia is due largely to the efforts of its present King, Ibn Saud. (Actually his whole name is Abdul Aziz Ibn Abdul Rahman Alfaisal Al-Saud.) After World War I when Arabia succeeded in freeing itself from Turkish domination internal strife followed. As a result of a six year struggle the Ibn Saud dynasty achieved a paramount position throughout the peninsula. King Ibn Saud is assisted in conducting affairs of state by his eldest son, who acts as Supervisor of a Royal Supervisory Council and by his second son who holds the three important positions of Viceroy of the Hejaz, President of the Council of Ministers, and Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Legislative power is vested in a Consultative Assembly meeting in Mecca whose members are appointed by the King. There is also an Advisory Council which shares responsibility with the King regarding important decisions.
The King has absolute power only in so far as his injunctions are based on unequivocal interpretations of the Koran, the Holy Book of Islam, which aside from its spiritual aspect, constitutes td a large extent the legal and social codes of the Kingdom. In arriving at decisions, the King and his judges also take into account undisputed sayings of the Prophet Mohammed, not included in the Holy Writ, and all the judicial cases which have established precedent.
If a case arises which has no precedent, the King after deliberating with his coun-