Pan American
e	World Airways Teacher _______________________ May-June, 1951
NEW ORLEANS — Part of a group of forty Colombian girls who arrived in New Orleans to attend a special course at Mississippi Women’s College in Hattiesburg under the International House student interchange program.
their home away from home. They are met upon arrival by International House personnel in the organization’s department of international relations and all hotel accommodations and continuing transportation are checked and facilitated. During their stay in the United States, the students constantly call upon International House for advice, counsel or any other services which can be of help to them.
Each year in August International House arranges a Latin American week-end for students at all neighboring colleges taking the special courses under the student exchange program. In cooperation with the city, the port authority, the chamber of commerce and the International Trade Mart, a three-day program is provided beginning with a Noche de Las Americas dinner and fiesta at International House, itself.
From 150-250 students have attended this week-end each year since 1947 when it was first organized. They have made a trip aboard the harbor inspection yacht and had lunch on the river, taken a tour of the French Quarter, toured the universities, residential areas and military posts in New Orleans, spent an evening at the lakeside amusement park on Lake Pontchartrain and completed their visit with Mass at historic St. Louis cathedral and civic luncheon.
“In planning this student exchange program,” Cobb continued, “our object is to arrange courses of study at the least possible expense to students, preferably with facilities of board and room provided in private homes, both in Latin America and in the United States.”
In Medellin, Colombia, during the summer q|- 1950, a group of United States
students attended the University of Antio-quia under the International House plan, living in private homes at a minimum of expense, taking advantage of low-cost summer air coach fares for their transportation. The Medellin courses already have been enlarged for a greater number of students in 1951.
International House has prepared information on all the courses offered for students of Spanish and Portuguese all over the United States and for students of English throughout Latin America, Cobb explained.
Supported by the dues of its 2200 members, International House seeks only to develop greater trade and understanding between the Mississippi Valley and the world, in the belief that this understanding and trade form the best basis for peace. Student interchange has been one of its basic interests since the organization opened its doors in June, 1945. However, interchange at the scholastic level has not been the only effort of International House for better understanding, according to Cobb.
“We have periodically organized goodwill trips for our members and for prominent newspaper writers to Latin America so they could see at first hand the countries which lie to the South of us and come to know and understand these neighbors of theirs better.”
Recent trips have included a 12-day air cruise to Colombia and a 17-day flight to all five Central American republics and Mexico, both via Pan American. Previous to that, International House organized with Pan American World Airways and Pana-gra a flight of 35 newspaper editors to Panama and Peru, and also sponsored
flights to Mexico City, Guatemala, Yucatan and several Caribbean countries.
“We plan more of these goodwill trips, both near and far in the future,” said Cobb, who personally led the majority of the trips already made.
A feature of the International House goodwill trips has been their low cost to those participating, and in the case of several trips for newspaper writers, all costs have been borne by sponsoring organizations.
Low cost also has been a feature of the student interchanges with all schools participating arranging for the lowest room, board and tuition rate possible for students, both on the part of North American universities as well as those in Central and South America.
The International House trip to Central America cost only $450 for 17 days, including all transportation by air; rooms and meals at hotels; transportation to and from airports; side trips to points of interest in every country visited, and special features not ordinarily available to tourists. Other trips sponsored by the organization have ranged in cost down as low as $150 including all expenses.
Plans for the future by International House along this line include all expense trips to many countries in South America, and a swing through the Caribbean in 1951, and other trips to closer points will be arranged as members of the organization and others indicate their interest.
International House already has begun this exchange program at the journalist level with a series of inter-American press fellowships provided newspapermen in Latin America wanting to come to New Orleans to further acquaint themselves with this port and its role in world trade. The first recipient was Luis Leon P. of El Comercio of Lima, Peru, who spent four weeks here, working with the personnel of International House, touring the port and city and meeting the local press. The second fellowship winner was Antonio Menendez, R., of the Diario de Yucatan of Merida, Yucatan, Mexico, who spent five weeks here studying the port and the mechanical facilities of newspapers in New Orleans and Baton Rouge. Candidates are now being studied for the awarding of the third press fellowship.
“We fully realize that this great world trade is the lifeblood of New Orleans and of great importance to the Mississippi Valley, and we are doing all we can to foster it,” Cobb said. “Yet, without understanding among people we are not building on a solid foundation.
“For that reason, we are laying the groundwork now for an ever increased interchange of students and other people interested in learning more about their neighbors. They are the future business and government leaders of their respective countries and on them, ultimately, will depend our future trade.
“We are offering the good offices of our organization in this work, depending on the cooperation of transportation companies, universities, schools, colleges and others to help us carry out this worthwhile task to its greatest fruition.”