Pan American
World Airways Teacher	May-June, 1951
Pah Americas	'1c'
W World Air wavs Teacher
Published, as a service to teachers by Pan American World Airways George Gardner, Educational Director
Copyright, 1951, Pan American World Airways, Inc.
Editors are authorized to reprint articles from WORLD AIRWAYS TEACHER or to quote from them, provided source is credited.
Address correspondence to: Educational Director Pan American World Airways 28-19 Bridge Plaza North Long Island City 1, N. Y.
Printed in U. S. A.
STUDENTS FROM ABROAD
There are 30,000 students from other lands on American college campuses right now, according to a survey made by the Institute of International Education, New York. Sitting side-by-side in classes with blue-jeaned Americans, these young people from many lands, representing a total investment of $75,000,000, are making student “exchange” an important phase of American foreign relations.
Distribution in the United States of this foreign student population roughly corresponds to the total population of the states themselves, the survey shows. New York state, with a total population of more than 14,000,000, can count 5,452 foreign students. Only 13 students from abroad, on the other hand, are learning about the U. S. in the state of Nevada. But 1400 schools, scattered all across the country, reported that they had at least one foreign student lending international color to their student body. Some reported over 1,000 foreign students (Columbia University, 1,414; University of California, 1,323 ; New York University, 1,211). Other smaller schools had a still higher percentage in relation to their total enrollment (Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 9.13 per cent; Harvard University, 5.88 per cent ; Howard University, 5.37 per cent).
One large factor in the fast-growing influx of students from abroad is that young people are coming in large numbers for the first time from many of the countries of Africa, the Near East and Asia. In 1930, according to a previous survey made by the Institute, there was only one student from Afghanistan in the U. S—today there are 66. Two Burmese here in 1930 have multiplied to 88 here now. The Gold Coast of Africa, with no one here twenty years ago, this year has 78. Iraq’s eleven have grown to 546, India’s 195 to 1,136. (In the case of China, however, which has had a long record of sending its young people to school in America, exchanges are now of course in a state of dissolution, and the fate of the 3,549 Chinese students here today is undecided.)
Students who gave Iron Curtain lands, as their “country of origin” were assumed in the survey to be refugees or émigrés, and not planning to leave the U. S. at the end of the school year.
Alaska’s Population
According to the preliminary figures of the 1950 Census, the population of Alaska is 126,661. The largest city in Alaska (same source) is Anchorage with 11,060. Juneau has 5,818 residents and Ketchikan 5,202.
Our story on Alaska in the Jan.-Feb. issue gave totals as reported in the 1940 census, and we began to hear from readers post haste—not only because Alaska’s population has increased so greatly in ten years, but also because Anchorage has grown so fast that it has become Alaska’s largest city.
Our apologies to each and every Alaskan who was counted in the 1950 census, but unaccounted for in the World Airways Teacher article, especially all the new residents of Anchorage!
Orientation Centers
Twenty American colleges and universities this summer will have “orientation centers” for 1,000 foreign students who will be brought to this country from other lands by U. S. government “exchange-of-persons” projects. These orientation centers will give the students from abroad a briefing on America and practice in speaking and listening to English, before the school bell rings in September, when they will scatter to colleges and universities all across the country. Their year’s study will be sponsored by the Departments of State and Army, and administered by the Institute of International Education, New York.
Kenneth Holland, of the Institute of International Education, in making the announcement, stated: “Orientation should be the boost over the first barrier of bewilderment which the foreign students find on arrival in this overwhelming country of ours. The six-weeks orientation period is designed to help the student get ‘adjusted’ before the regular term begins.” Mr. Holland emphasized the problem of language proficiency, and, for some students, the extreme difficulty in adjusting to the North American climate. All of the orientation centers are urged to have women on their teaching staffs, he said, since many foreign students “bring with them certain prejudices concerning the role of women,” and they should become aware as soon as possible of the position of women in the U. S.
Five hundred and fifty of the thousand students will be from Japan and the Ryu-kyus, the string of islands stretching across the East China Sea from Japan to Formosa. The Department of the Army initiated this project with the central purpose of providing a “nucleus of trained personnel for leadership in the reconstruction of Japan
and the Ryukyus.” These 550 students were selected from among more than 10,000 applicants.
The remaining 450 students will be coming to the U. S. under the provisions of the Fulbright Act, the Smith-Mundt Act, and the Finnish Educational Exchange Act. They will represent 56 countries of the world.
The twenty colleges and universities which will have the orientation centers are: Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, New York; Bucknell University, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania; University of California, Berkeley, California; Claremont Graduate School, Claremont, California; Columbia University, New York, New York; Denver University, Denver, Colorado; Duke University, Durham, North Carolina; Haver-ford College, Haverford, Pennsylvania; University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois; Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana; University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kansas ; University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky; Lafayette College, Easton, Pennsylvania; Mills College, Oakland, California; Queens College, Flushing, New York; Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, New York; Syracuse University, Syracuse, New York; University of Texas, Austin, Texas; University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin; Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut. The centers will open about July 30.
Ford Foundation Aids I.I.E.
The Ford Foundation has arranged with the Institute of International Education in New York to use its services in the review and administration of projects involving the international exchange of persons, it was announced today by Dr. Kenneth Holland, President of the Institute, at the Board of Trustees meeting at the Baltimore Hotel. The Institute, on request from the Foundation, will review and make recommendations on projects requesting support from the Ford Foundation for exchange of students, specialists, trainees, teachers and others between the United States and foreign countries, and as assigned will act as the agent of the Foundation in administering approved projects.
The Ford Foundation is providing funds for expansion of the Institute, particularly that part responsible for bringing specialists, and technicians from abroad for observation and advanced training in the United States. The fund will also finance the establishment of field offices in various sections of the country to improve existing programs.